                         Akurdi, Pune 411 035, India.

                         Tel +91 20 27472851
                         Fax +91 20 27473398
                         bajajauto.com
BAJAJ



               30 June 2021

                To                                        To
                 Corporate Relations Department           Corporate Listing Department
                 BSE Limited                              National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
                 1st Floor, New Trading Ring              Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor
                 Rotunda Building, P J Tower              Plot No.C-1 , G Block
                 Dalal Street                             Bandra-Kurla Complex
                 Mumbai 400 001                           Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
                 BSE Code: 532977                         NSE Code: BAJAJ-AUTO

               Subject: Annual Report for FY2021 and Notice of 14th Annual General Meeting (AGM)

                Dear Sirs/Madam,

               This is further to our letter dated 29 April 2021 , wherein the Company had informed that the
               AGM of the Company is scheduled to be held on Thursday, 22 July 2021.

               Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) read with Regulation 30 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
               Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, please find enclosed the following
               documents for FY2021, as circulated to the shareholders through electronic mode:

                    •    Notice of 14th Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on Thursday, 22 July 2021
                         through Video Conferencing/ Other Audio-Visual Means (e-AGM)
                    •    AnnualReport
                    •    Business Responsibility Report (BRR)

               Aforesaid documents are also available on the website of the Company, i.e.,
               https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports and on the website of KFin Technologies
               Private Limited at https://evotinq.kfintech.com.

               Please take the above on your record .

               Thanking you,

               Yours faithfully,
               For Bajaj Auto Limited


               E.J~,~~. ~
               Company Secretary

               Encl: As above




Registered Office Akurdi Pune 411035 India                                                         CIN L65993PN2007PLC130076
                                                                                                               BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                               CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

                                                                                                               Regd. Office:
                                                                                                               Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                                               Akurdi, Pune 411 035
                                                                                                               E-mail ID: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                                                               Website: www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                               Phone: 020-2747 2851
                                                                                                               Fax: 020-2740 7380




                                                              AGM NOTICE

Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth annual general meeting of the shareholders of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘BAL’ or the ‘Company’) will be held on
Thursday, 22 July 2021 at 12.15 p.m. through video conferencing (‘VC’)/Other Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’) facility to transact the
following business:

ORDINARY BUSINESS

1.   To consider and adopt the standalone and consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2021,
     together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.

2.   To declare a dividend.

3.   To appoint a director in place of Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj (DIN 00028261), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

4.   To appoint a director in place of Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (DIN 00014615), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

SPECIAL BUSINESS

5.   Re-appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava as Whole-time Director of the Company for a period of five years
     with effect from 1 April 2021

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

     “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013,
     (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’) read along with Schedule V to the Act (including any amendment thereto or re-enactment thereof
     for the time being in force) and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended from
     time to time and based on the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee and subject to such sanctions as may be
     necessary, the consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to the re-appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava (DIN 07464437) as
     Whole-time Director with the designation as Executive Director (‘WTD’) of the Company for another term of five years commencing from
     1 April 2021 till 31 March 2026, liable to retire by rotation, upon the terms and conditions set out in the statement annexed to the Notice
     convening this Meeting, including the remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during his
     said tenure within the overall limits of Section 197 of the Act and in the agreement entered into between the Company and WTD, which
     agreement is hereby approved, with liberty to the Board of Directors, to alter or vary the terms and conditions and remuneration including
     minimum remuneration as it may deem fit and in such manner as may be agreed to between the Board and WTD.

     “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to revise the remuneration of WTD from time to time
     to the extent the Board of Directors may deem appropriate, provided that such revision is within the overall limits of the managerial
     remuneration as prescribed under the Act read with Schedule V thereto, and/or any guidelines prescribed by the Government from time
     to time and the said agreement between the Company and WTD be suitably amended to give effect to such modification, relaxation or
                                                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




     variation without any further reference to the members of the Company in general meeting.

     ‘‘FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby severally authorised to
     do all such acts, deeds, matters and things and execute all such documents, instruments and writings as may be required and delegate all
     or any of its powers herein conferred to any committee of director(s) to give effect to the above resolution.”




                                                                                                                                                    1
                     Notice




                     6.   Approval for payment and facilities to be extended to Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj as Chairman Emeritus
                          of the Company from 1 May 2021 to 30 April 2026

                          To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:

                          “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 188 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
                          (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’), the Rules made thereunder or any amendment thereto or modification thereof, the Articles of
                          Association, and such other approvals, permissions and sanctions as may be required, approval of the members be and is hereby
                          accorded for making payments and extending facilities to Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj, as Chairman Emeritus of the Company for
                          a term of five years commencing from 1 May 2021 till 30 April 2026 as approved by the Board of Directors, and set out in the explanatory
                          statement relating to this resolution, with liberty to the Board of Directors, to alter or vary the terms and conditions (including the
                          payments and facilities) in such manner as the board may deem fit and is acceptable to Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj.

                          “FURTHER RESOLVED THAT in the event of any statutory amendment, modification or relaxation by the Central Government to the Act,
                          the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to vary the terms and conditions (including the payments and facilities accorded to
                          Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj) in accordance with the applicable law without any further reference to, or requirement to seek approval
                          of the members of the Company.

                          “AND FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to take such steps as may be necessary to give effect
                          to this resolution.”

                     7.   Approval for payment of commission to Non-executive Directors for a period of five years commencing from
                          1 April 2021

                          To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

                          “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of sections 197 read along with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if any, of the
                          Companies Act, 2013, (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’) a sum not exceeding one percent per annum of the net profits of the Company,
                          calculated in accordance with the provisions of sections 198 of the Act, be paid to and distributed amongst the directors of the Company or
                          some or any of them (other than the Managing Director and Whole-time Directors, if any) in such amounts, subject to such ceiling/s and in
                          such manner and in such respects, as may be decided by the Board of Directors of the Company and such payments shall be made in respect
                          of the profits of the Company for each year for a period of five years commencing from 1 April 2021.

                          “PROVIDED THAT in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during the term mentioned above, the Non-executive
                          Directors shall be paid remuneration by way of Commission as set out above, as may be decided by the Board of Directors of the Company,
                          notwithstanding that it may exceed one percent of the net profits of the Company and subject to such restrictions, if any, as may be set out in
                          the applicable provisions of and schedule V to the Act, from time to time.”




                     By order of the Board of Directors
                     For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




                     Dr. J Sridhar
                     Company Secretary
                     Pune: 29 April 2021
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     2
                                                                                                                                              Notice




                                                                  NOTES:
1    In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) vide its circular dated 5 May 2020 read with circulars dated
     8 April 2020, 13 April 2020 and 13 January 2021 (collectively referred to as ‘MCA Circulars’) and SEBI vide its circular dated
     12 May 2020 and 15 January 2021 permitted the holding of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) through VC/OAVM facility, without the
     physical presence of the members at a common venue. In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), SEBI (Listing
     Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) and the relevant MCA Circulars, the AGM of the
     Company this year as well is being conducted through VC/OAVM, hereinafter called as ‘e-AGM’. KFin Technologies Private Ltd. (‘KFin’) will
     be providing facility for voting through remote e-voting, participation in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and e-voting during the AGM.
     The procedure for participating in the meeting through VC/OAVM is explained at Note No. 33C below.

2    The deemed venue for fourteenth e-AGM shall be the registered office of the Company.

3    Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on
     his/her behalf and the proxy need not be a member of the Company. Since this e-AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through
     VC/OAVM facility, physical attendance of members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the
     members will not be available for the e-AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice. In this notice,
     the terms member(s) or shareholder(s) are used interchangeably.

4    Institutional/Corporate Shareholders (i.e. other than individuals/HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format)
     of its Board or governing body Resolution/Authorization etc., authorizing its representative to attend the e-AGM on its behalf and to
     vote through remote e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to the Scrutinizer by e-mail through its registered e-mail
     address to cssdlimaye@gmail.com with a copy marked to mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com

5    Statement pursuant to section 102 of the Act forms part of this Notice. The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 29 April 2021 has
     decided that the special businesses set out under item no. 5 to 7, being considered ‘unavoidable’, be transacted at the fourteenth e-AGM of
     the Company.

6    Brief details of the directors, who are seeking appointment/re-appointment, are annexed hereto as per requirements of regulation 36(3) of
     the Listing Regulations and as per provisions of the Act.

7    The facility of joining the e-AGM through VC /OAVM will be opened 30 minutes before and will be open upto 30 minutes after the scheduled
     start time of the e-AGM, i.e. from 11.45 am to 12.45 pm and will be available for 1,000 members on a first-come first-served basis. This
     rule would however not apply to participation of shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding, promoters, institutional investors,
     directors, key and senior managerial personnel, auditors etc.

8    Institutional Investors, who are members of the Company are encouraged to attend and vote at the fourteenth e-AGM of the Company.

9    The Board of Directors has recommended dividend of H 140 per equity share of the face value of H 10 each for the year ended 31 March
     2021 for the approval of shareholders at the ensuing AGM.

10   Pursuant to the provisions of section 91 of the Act and regulation 42 of the Listing Regulations, the register of members and share
     transfer books of the Company will remain closed from Saturday, 10 July 2021 to Thursday, 22 July 2021 (both days inclusive) for the
     purpose of payment of dividend.

11   Subject to the provisions of section 126 of the Act, dividend on equity shares, if declared at the AGM, will be credited/dispatched on
     Monday, 26 July 2021 and/ or Tuesday, 27 July 2021 as under:

     a)    to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided by share transfer agent of the Company i.e.
           KFin to the Company, as of or before the closing hours on Friday, 9 July 2021 and

     b)    to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form, as per the beneficial ownership data made available to the Company
           by National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) as of the close of business
           hours on Friday, 9 July 2021.

12   As per the Listing Regulations and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 20 April 2018, the Company shall use any electronic mode of payment
     approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment to the members. Accordingly, the dividend, if declared will be paid through
     electronic mode, where the bank account details of the shareholders required for this purpose are available. Where dividend payments
     are made through electronic mode, intimation regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the shareholders. Where the dividend
                                                                                                                                                       14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




     cannot be paid through electronic mode, the same will be paid through physical instrument such as non-negotiable instruments/warrants
     with bank account details of such shareholders printed thereon.

13   To ensure timely credit of dividend through electronic mode or physical instrument such as banker’s cheque or demand draft, members
     are requested to notify change of address or particulars of their bank account, if any, to share transfer agent - KFin and to their respective
     depository participants.




                                                                                                                                                  3
                     Notice




                     14   To avoid fraudulent transactions, the identity/signature of the members holding shares in electronic/demat form is verified with the
                          specimen signatures furnished by NSDL/CDSL and that of members holding shares in physical form is verified as per the records of the
                          share transfer agent of the Company. Members are requested to keep the same updated.

                     15   SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number (PAN) by every person dealing in securities market. Members
                          holding shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to submit the PAN details to their depository participants with whom they are
                          maintaining their demat accounts. Members holding shares in physical form can submit their PAN details to the Company or KFin.

                     16   In terms of section 101 and 136 of the Act, read together with the rules made thereunder, the listed companies may send the notice of
                          annual general meeting and the annual report, including Financial Statements, Board Report, etc. by electronic mode. Pursuant to the said
                          provisions of the Act read with MCA Circulars, SEBI Circular dated 12 May 2020 and 15 January 2021, Notice of the AGM along with the
                          Annual Report 2020-21 is being sent only through electronic mode to those members whose e-mail addresses are registered with
                          the Company/Depositories. Members may note that the Notice and Annual Report 2020-21 will also be available on the Company’s website
                          https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports, website of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Ltd. at www.bseindia.com and
                          National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. at www.nseindia.com and on the website of KFin at www.kfintech.com

                     17   To receive communications through electronic means, including Annual Reports and Notices, members are requested to kindly register/
                          update their e-mail address with their respective depository participants, where shares are held in demat mode.

                     18   Members who have not registered their e-mail addresses and mobile nos. and consequently could not be served the Annual Report for
                          FY2021 and Notice of fourteenth e-AGM, may temporarily get themselves registered with KFin, by following the procedure mentioned
                          below:

                          (a)   Visit the link: https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/mobilereg/mobilee-mailreg.aspx

                          (b)   Select the company name i.e. Bajaj Auto Ltd.

                          (c)   Select the Holding type from the drop down i.e. - NSDL/CDSL/Physical

                          (d)   Enter DP ID – Client ID (in case shares are held in electronic form) /Physical Folio No. (in case shares are held in
                                physical form) and PAN.

                          (e)   If PAN details are not available in the system, the system will prompt to upload a self-attested copy of the PAN card for
                                updating records.

                          (f)   In case shares are held in physical form and PAN is not available in the records, please enter any one of the Share Certificate No.
                                in respect of the shares held by you.

                          (g)   Enter the e-mail address and mobile number.

                          (h)   System will validate DP ID – Client ID/Folio No. and PAN/Share certificate No., as the case may be, and send OTP at the registered
                                mobile number as well as e-mail address for validation.

                          (i)   Enter the OTPs received by SMS and e-mail to complete the validation process. OTP will be valid for 5 minutes only.

                          (j)   The Notice and e-voting instructions along with the User ID and Password will be sent on the e-mail address updated by the
                                member.

                          (k)   Please note that in case the shares are held in electronic form, the above facility is only for temporary registration of e-mail address
                                for receipt of the Notice and the e-voting instructions along with the User ID and Password. Such members will have to register their
                                e-mail address with their DPs permanently, so that all communications are received by them in electronic form.

                          (l)   In case of queries, members are requested to write to einward.ris@kfintech.com or call at the toll free number 1800-309-4001.

                     19   Further, the Company has availed of services offered by CDSL and NSDL to update e-mail addresses of shareholders of the Company who
                          have not registered their e-mail addresses. Members are requested to respond to their messages and register their e-mail id and support
                          the green initiative efforts of the Company. Members are also requested to support our commitment to environmental protection by
                          choosing to receive the Company’s communication through e-mail going forward.

                     20   With a view to helping us serve the members better, members who hold shares in identical names and in the same order of names in
                          more than one folio are requested to write to the Company to consolidate their holdings in one folio.

                     21   SEBI vide its notification dated 8 June 2018 as amended on 30 November 2018, has stipulated that w.e.f. 1 April 2019, the transfer of
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                          securities (except transmission or transposition of shares) shall not be processed, unless the securities are held in the dematerialized
                          form. However, SEBI vide its circular dated 2 December 2020 had fixed 31 March 2021 as the cut-off date for re-lodgement for any pending
                          physical transfers and that such transferred shares shall be issued only in demat mode. In accordance with the said circular, SEBI has also
                          provided operational guidelines for effecting demat to the transferee’s account and in case transferee fails to furnish necessary details
                          within stipulated timelines, such shares will be transferred to Suspense Escrow Demat Account to be opened by the Company.

                     4
                                                                                                                                              Notice




22   To comply with the above mandate, members who still hold share certificates in physical form are advised to dematerialise their
     shareholding to also avail of numerous benefits of dematerialisation, which include easy liquidity, ease of trading and transfer,
     savings in stamp duty and elimination of any possibility of loss of documents and bad deliveries.

23   In case of joint holders, the member whose name appears as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register of Members of the
     Company will be entitled to vote at the e-AGM.

24   The Company has been maintaining, inter alia, the following statutory registers at its registered office at Akurdi, Pune-411035:

     i)     Register of contracts or arrangements in which directors are interested under section 189 of the Act.

     ii)    Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding under section 170 of the Act.

     In accordance with the MCA circulars, the said registers shall be made accessible for inspection through electronic mode, which shall
     remain open and be accessible to any member during the continuance of the meeting.

25   Certificate from Statutory Auditors of the Company certifying that the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2019 of the Company is
     being implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, will also be available for inspection
     by the members through electronic mode.

26   For ease of conduct, members who would like to ask questions/express their views on the items of the businesses to be transacted at the
     meeting can send in their questions/comments in advance by visiting URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ and clicking on the tab
     “Post your Queries” during the period starting from 15 July 2021 (9.00 a.m.) upto 19 July 2021 (5.00 p.m.) mentioning their name,
     demat account no./Folio no., e-mail id, mobile number etc. The queries may be raised precisely and in brief to enable the Company to
     answer the same suitably depending on the availability of time at the meeting.

27   Pursuant to section 72 of the Act, members holding shares in physical form are advised to file nomination in the prescribed
     Form SH-13 (a copy of which is available on the website of the Company) with the Company’s share transfer agent. In respect of shares
     held in electronic/demat form, the members may please contact their respective depository participant.

28   In terms of section 124(5) of the Act, dividend amount for the year ended 31 March 2014 remaining unclaimed for a period of seven years
     shall become due for transfer in August 2021 to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the Central Government.

     Further, in terms of section 124(6) of the Act, in case of such shareholders whose dividends are unpaid for a continuous period of seven
     years, the corresponding shares shall be transferred to the IEPF’s demat account.

     Members who have not claimed dividends in respect of the financial years from 2013-14 onwards are requested to approach the
     Company/KFin for claiming the same as early as possible, to avoid transfer of the relevant shares to the IEPF’s demat account.

29   For more details on shareholders’ matters, please refer to the chapter on General Shareholder Information, included in the Annual Report.

30   Since the meeting will be conducted through VC/OAVM facility, the Route Map is not annexed in this Notice.

31   In case a person has become a member of the Company after dispatch of AGM Notice, but on or before the cut-off date for e-voting, i.e.,
     Thursday, 15 July 2021, such person may obtain the User ID and Password from KFin by e-mail request on einward.ris@kfintech.com

32   Alternatively, member may send signed copy of the request letter providing the e-mail address, mobile number, self-attested PAN copy
     along with client master copy (in case of electronic folio)/copy of share certificate (in case of physical folio) via e-mail at the e-mail id
     einward.ris@kfintech.com for obtaining the Annual Report and Notice of e-AGM.

33   Instructions for e-voting and joining the e-AGM are as follows:

A.   Voting through electronic means:

     i.     In terms of the provisions of section 108 of the Act, read with rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,
            2014 as amended (hereinafter called ‘the Rules’ for the purpose of this section of the Notice) and regulation 44 of the Listing
            Regulations and in terms of SEBI vide circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9 December 2020 in relation to
            e-voting facility provided by Listed Entities, the members are provided with the remote e-voting facility to exercise votes on the
            items of business given in the Notice, through the e-voting services provided by KFin or to vote at the e-AGM.
                                                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




     ii.    The members, whose names appear in the Register of Members/list of Beneficial Owners as on Thursday, 15 July 2021 (end of day),
            being the cut-off date fixed for determining voting rights of members are entitled to participate in the e-voting process.
            A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for information purpose only.

     iii.   Members can cast their vote online from 19 July 2021 (9.00 a.m.) till 21 July 2021 (5.00 p.m.). Voting beyond the said date shall not
            be allowed and the remote e-voting facility shall be blocked.




                                                                                                                                                     5
                     Notice




                          iv.   Alternatively, members holding securities in physical mode may reach out on toll free number 1800 309 4001 for obtaining User ID
                                and password or may write e-mail from the registered e-mail id to evoting@kfintech.com

                          v.    The details of the process and manner for remote e-voting are explained herein below:

                     I)   Login method for remote e-voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode

                          Pursuant to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9 December 2020 on “e-voting facility provided by Listed
                          Companies”, e-voting process has been enabled to all the individual demat account holders, by way of single login credential, through their
                          demat accounts/websites of Depositories/DPs in order to increase the efficiency of the voting process. Individual demat account holders
                          would be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the e-voting service provider (ESP) thereby not only facilitating
                          seamless authentication but also ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process.

                          Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail id with their DPs in order to access e-voting facility.

                          Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:


                          Type of shareholders                       Login method


                          Individual shareholders holding            A. Users registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
                          securities in demat mode with NSDL         1. Open web browser by typing the URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a personal
                                                                        computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the
                                                                        “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
                                                                     2. A new screen will open. Enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication,
                                                                        you will be able to see e-voting services. Click on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting
                                                                        services and you will be able to see e-voting page.
                                                                     3. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - KFintech
                                                                        and you will be re-directed to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote
                                                                        during the remote e-voting period.

                                                                     B. Users not registered for IDeAS e-Services:
                                                                        Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com Select “Register Online for
                                                                        IDeAS” Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp and
                                                                        proceed with completing the required fields i.e. follow steps given in points 1-3 above.

                                                                     C. By visiting the e-voting website of NSDL:
                                                                     1. Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the
                                                                        URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile. Once
                                                                        the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the “Login” icon, available under
                                                                        the “Shareholder/Member” section.
                                                                     2. A new screen will open. Enter your User ID (i. e. your 16-digit demat account number
                                                                        held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After
                                                                        successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can
                                                                        see e-voting page.
                                                                     3. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - KFintech
                                                                        and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during
                                                                        the remote e-voting period.



                          Individual Shareholders holding            A. Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest:
                          securities in demat mode with CDSL         1. URL to login to Easi/Easiest: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login
                                                                        or
                                                                        www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon and select New System Myeasi
                                                                     2. Shareholders can login through their user ID and password. Option will be made available
                                                                        to reach e-voting page without any further authentication.
                                                                     3. After successful login on Easi/Easiest, the user will also be able to see the e-voting menu.
                                                                        The menu will have links of ESPs. Click on KFintech to cast your vote.

                                                                     B. Users who have not opted for Easi/Easiest:
                                                                        Option to register for Easi/Easiest is available at
                                                                        https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration and proceed with
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                                        completing the required fields.




                     6
                                                                                                                                                Notice




                                                     C. By visiting the e-voting website of CDSL:
                                                     1. The user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat account number and PAN
                                                        No. from a link in www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by
                                                        sending OTP on registered mobile no. and e-mail id as recorded in the demat account.
                                                     2. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting option where the
                                                        e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of ESP i.e. KFintech

      Individual Shareholders (holding               1.   Shareholders can also login using the login credentials of their demat account through
      securities in demat mode) logging                   their Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility. Once logged-in,
      through their depository participants               you will be able to see e-voting option.
                                                     2.   Once you click on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site
                                                          after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
                                                     3.   Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider- KFintech
                                                          and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during
                                                          the remote e-voting period.

      Important Note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password option
      available at respective websites.

      Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode who need assistance for any technical issues related to login
      through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:

      Members facing any technical issue - NSDL                                 Members facing any technical issue - CDSL


      Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL              Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL
      helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call on            helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com
      toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30                            or contact on 022- 23058738 or 022-23058542-43


II)   Login method for remote e-voting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities in demat
      mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode

      i.      Initial password is provided in the body of the e-mail.

      ii.     Launch internet browser and type the URL: https://evoting.kfintech.com in the address bar.

      iii.    Enter the login credentials i.e. User ID and password mentioned in your e-mail. Your Folio No./DP ID Client ID will be your User ID.
              However, if you are already registered with KFin for e-voting, you can use your existing User ID and password for casting your votes.

      iv.     After entering the details appropriately, click on LOGIN.

      v.      You will reach the password change menu wherein you are required to mandatorily change your password. The new password shall
              comprise minimum 8 characters with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special
              character (@,#,$,etc.). It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep
              your password confidential.

      vi.     You need to login again with the new credentials.

      vii.    On successful login, the system will prompt you to select the EVENT i.e. Bajaj Auto Ltd.

      viii.   On the voting page, the number of shares (which represents the number of votes) held by you as on the cut-off date will appear.
              If you desire to cast all the votes assenting/dissenting to the resolution, enter all shares and click ‘FOR’/‘AGAINST’ as the case may
              be or partially in ‘FOR’ and partially in ‘AGAINST’, but the total number in ‘FOR’ and/or ‘AGAINST’ taken together should not exceed
              your total shareholding as on the cut-off date. You may also choose the option ‘ABSTAIN’, in which case, the shares held will not be
              counted under either head.

      ix.     Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall choose the voting process separately for each folio/demat account.
                                                                                                                                                           14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




      x.      Cast your votes by selecting an appropriate option and click on ‘SUBMIT’. A confirmation box will be displayed. Click ‘OK’ to confirm,
              else ‘CANCEL’ to modify. Once you confirm, you will not be allowed to modify your vote subsequently. During the voting period, you
              can login multiple times till you have confirmed that you have voted on the resolution.




                                                                                                                                                       7
                     Notice




                          xi.     Corporate/institutional members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned image (PDF/JPG format) of
                                  certified true copy of relevant board resolution/authority letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorised
                                  signatory(ies) who is/are authorised to vote, to the Scrutinizer through e-mail at cssdlimaye@gmail.com and may also upload the
                                  same in the e-voting module in their login. The scanned image of the above documents should be in the naming format
                                  ‘BAL EVENT No.’

                          xii.    In case of any queries/grievances, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and e-voting user manual
                                  available at the ‘download’ section of https://evoting.kfintech.com or call KFin on 1800-309-4001(toll free).

                     B.   Voting at e-AGM:

                          i.      Only those members/shareholders, who will be present in the e-AGM through video conferencing facility and have not cast their vote
                                  through remote e-voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so are eligible to vote through e-voting in the e-AGM.

                          ii.     However, members who have voted through remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the e-AGM.

                          iii.    Members attending the e-AGM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under section 103 of the Act.

                          iv.     Upon declaration by the Chairman about the commencement of e-voting at e-AGM, members shall click on the thumb sign on the
                                  left-hand bottom corner of the video screen and follow the instructions to vote on the resolutions for voting during the e-AGM.

                     C.   Instructions for members for attending the e-AGM:

                          i.      Members will be able to attend the e-AGM through VC/OAVM or view the live webcast of AGM provided by KFin at
                                  https://emeetings.kfintech.com by clicking on the tab “video conference” and by using their remote e-voting login credentials.
                                  The link for e-AGM will be available in members login, where the EVENT and the name of the Company can be selected. Members
                                  who do not have User ID and Password for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the same by following
                                  the remote e-voting instructions mentioned under heading A above.

                          ii.     Members are encouraged to join the meeting through devices (Laptops, Desktops, Mobile devices) with Google Chrome for better
                                  experience.

                          iii.    Further, members registered as speakers will be required to allow camera during e-AGM and hence are required to use internet
                                  with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the meeting.

                          iv.     Members may join the meeting using headphones for better sound clarity.

                          v.      While all efforts would be made to make the VC/OAVM meeting smooth, participants connecting through mobile devices, tablets,
                                  laptops etc. may at times experience audio/video loss due to fluctuation in their respective networks. Use of a stable Wi-Fi or LAN
                                  connection can mitigate some of the technical glitches.

                          vi.     Members, who would like to express their views or ask questions during the e-AGM will have to register themselves as a speaker
                                  by visiting the URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ and clicking on the tab “Speaker Registration” during the period starting from
                                  15 July 2021 (9.00 a.m.) upto 19 July 2021 (5.00 p.m.). Only those members who have registered themselves as a speaker will be
                                  allowed to express their views/ask questions during the e-AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers
                                  depending on the availability of time for the e-AGM. Only questions of the members holding shares as on the cut-off date will be
                                  considered.

                          vii.    A video guide assisting the members attending e-AGM either as a speaker or participant is available for quick reference at URL
                                  https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ under the “How It Works” tab placed on top of the page.

                          viii.   Members who need technical assistance before or during the fourteenth e-AGM can contact KFin at emeetings@kfintech.com or
                                  Helpline: 1800-309-4001

                     D.    General Instructions:

                          i.      The Board of Directors has appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572) as the
                                  Scrutinizer to the e-voting process and voting at the e-AGM in a fair and transparent manner.

                          ii.     The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the e-AGM, first count the votes cast at the meeting, thereafter
                                  unblock the votes through e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses, not in the employment of the Company and make
                                  a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman of the Company, who shall
                                  countersign the same.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                          iii.    The scrutinizer shall submit his report to the Chairman or in his absence Managing Director and CEO of the Company, who shall
                                  declare the result of the voting. The results declared along with the scrutinizer’s report shall be placed on the Company’s website
                                  www.bajajauto.com and on the website of KFin https://evoting.kfintech.com and shall also be communicated to the stock exchanges.
                                  The resolutions shall be deemed to be passed at the e-AGM of the Company.

                     8
                                                                                                                                              Notice




34. Dividend related information:

    The Finance Act, 2020 has abolished the Dividend Distribution Tax (‘DDT’) and has introduced the system of dividend taxation in the hands
    of the shareholders with effect from 1 April 2020. Accordingly, the Company would be required to deduct Tax at Source (‘TDS’) in respect
    of approved payment of dividend to its shareholders (resident as well as non-resident).

    Resident Shareholders:

    Tax shall be deducted at source under section 194 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (‘IT Act’) @ 10% on the amount of dividend declared and
    paid by the Company during financial year 2021-22, subject to the following:

    Sr. No.      Particulars                                                       Rate of TDS applicable             Section under the IT Act


        1.       PAN is not available/ Invalid PAN                                           20%                                206AA

        2.       Non-linking of PAN with Aadhaar, if allotted (Refer Note 1)                 20%                                206AA

        3.       Non-filing of return of income tax for any of the last two                  20%                                206AB
                 financial years (i.e. FY 2018-19 and FY 2019-20); and TDS
                 as well as TCS deduction in each of these years in case of
                 the shareholder is H 50,000 or more (Refer Note 2)

    Note 1: As per section 139AA(2) of the IT Act read with Rule 114AAA of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, currently, PAN is mandatorily required
    to be linked with Aadhaar by 30 June 2021. If PAN is not linked with Aadhaar by 30 June 2021 (unless such due date is extended), such
    PAN will be deemed inoperative and tax at source will be required to be deducted at higher rates under section 206AA of the IT Act.

    Note 2: Provisions of section 206AB of the IT Act are applicable with effect from 1 July 2021, unless such date of applicability is extended.

    No tax shall be deducted at source on the dividend payable to a resident individual if the total dividend to be received by the said resident
    individual from the Company during a financial year does not exceed H 5,000; or if an eligible resident shareholder provides a valid
    declaration in Form 15G/ Form 15H or other documents as may be applicable to different categories of shareholders.

    Further, if a shareholder has obtained a lower or Nil withholding tax certificate from the tax authorities and provides a copy of the same to
    the Company, tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to such shareholder at the rate specified in the said certificate.

    Non-resident Shareholders:

    Tax is required to be deducted at source in the case of non-resident shareholders in accordance with the provisions of section 195 of
    the IT Act at the rates in force. As per the relevant provisions of the IT Act, the TDS on dividend shall be @ 20% or applicable rate plus
    applicable surcharge and health and education cess on the amount of dividend payable to the non-resident shareholders. For FII/ FPI
    shareholders, section 196D provides for TDS @ 20% or applicable rate plus applicable surcharge and health and education cess.

    However, as per section 90 of the IT Act, non-resident shareholders have the option to be governed by the provisions of the Double Tax
    Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) read with applicable Multilateral Instrument provisions, if they are more beneficial to them.

    A list of documents/ declarations required to be provided by the resident shareholders and list of documents/declarations
    required to claim the benefit of DTAA by the non-resident shareholders are available on the Company’s website
    https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports Kindly note that the documents should be uploaded with KFin Technologies Pvt Ltd.,
    the Registrar and Transfer Agent at https://ris.kfintech.com/form15 or e-mailed to einward.ris@kfintech.com

    No communication on the tax determination/ deduction shall be entertained after 10 July 2021.

    The above referred documents submitted by you will be verified by us and we will consider the same while deducting the appropriate
    taxes, if any, provided that these documents are in accordance with the provisions of the IT Act.

    In addition to the above, please note the following:

    l        In case you hold shares under multiple accounts under different status/category but under a single PAN, the highest rate of tax as
                                                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




             applicable to the status in which shares held under the said PAN will be considered on the entire holding in different accounts.

    l        In case of joint shareholding, the withholding tax rates shall be considered basis the status of the primary beneficial shareholder.

    l        For deduction of tax at source, the Company would be relying on the above data shared by KFin as updated up to the record date.

    It may be further noted that in case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in the absence of receipt of any of the aforementioned
    details/ documents from the shareholders, the shareholders may consider filing their return of income and claiming an appropriate
    refund, as may be eligible. No claim shall lie against the Company for such taxes deducted.

                                                                                                                                                    9
                     Notice




                          The Company shall arrange to e-mail the soft copy of the TDS certificate to shareholders at the registered e-mail id within the prescribed
                          time, post payment of the said dividend, if declared in the AGM. The said certificate can also be viewed in Form 26AS at TRACES
                          https://www.tdscpc.gov.in/app/login.xhtml or the website of the Income Tax department of India https://www.incometax.gov.in/home

                          In the event of any income tax demand (including interest, penalty, etc.) arising from any misrepresentation, inaccuracy or omission
                          of information provided by the Shareholder/s, such Shareholder/s will be responsible to indemnify the Company, and also provide the
                          Company with all information/ documents and co-operation in any assessment/ appellate proceedings before the Tax/ Government
                          authorities.

                          For further details and formats of declaration, please refer to FAQs on Tax Deduction at Source on Dividends available on the Company’s
                          website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     10
                                                                                                                                         Notice




                                                ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE

BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTORS SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING PURSUANT TO
REGULATION 36(3) OF THE LISTING REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE ACT.

Item No. 3 of the Notice

Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj (DIN 00028261)

As regards re-appointment of Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj referred to in Item No. 3 of the Notice, the following disclosures are made for the
information of the shareholders:

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj’s (born on 10 October 1954) career spans more than 35 years. He did his B.Com. from Sydenham College of
Commerce and Economics, Mumbai. He acquired his Masters in Business Administration from Harvard Business School, Boston, U.S.A.

Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj is one of the Promoter - Directors of the Bajaj Group. He is also the Chairman and Managing Director of
Mukand Ltd. and Non-executive Chairman of Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd..

He was the President of the Indian Merchants’ Chamber, a decade ago, when it was celebrating its Centenary Year. He was also the President of
the Alloy Steel Producer’s Association and Indian Stainless Steel Development Association.

He represented India in table tennis for seven years between 1970-77, of which last four years was as the captain. He has been three-times
All-India Table Tennis Champion and ranked India No.1, four times. He is the recipient of Arjuna Award, India’s highest Sport’s honour,
Shiv Chhatrapati Award, Maharashtra’s highest Sport’s honour and Maharashtra Gaurav Puraskar Award.

Major Directorships:

1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
2.   Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.
3.   Mukand Ltd.
4.   Mukand Engineers Ltd.
5.   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
6.   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
7.   Jeewan Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanship and Membership: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: 8,13,022

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Commercial, Purchase and Supply Chain, Insurance, Mutual Fund,
Financial Services, Regulatory, Government and Security matters and such other areas.

He has been associated as non-executive director on the Board of erstwhile Bajaj Auto Ltd. since 2006 and his last drawn remuneration during
the financial year 2020-21 was H 17.50 lakh. More details about his remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for
payment of sitting fees and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj has been appointed as Chairman of the Company with effect from 1 May 2021 at the Board meeting of the
Company held on 29 April 2021 in place of Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj, the outgoing Chairman.
                                                                                                                                                     14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Shekhar Bajaj, Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj and Nirajkumar
Ramkrishnaji Bajaj, are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the
Company.



                                                                                                                                                11
                     Notice




                     The Board commends item no. 3 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

                     Item No. 4 of the Notice

                     Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (DIN 00014615)

                     As regards re-appointment of Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj, referred to in Item No. 4 of the Notice, following disclosures are made for the
                     information of the shareholders:

                     Information about the appointee:

                     Brief resume

                     Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (born on 2 November 1969) is B.E. (Mech), first class with distinction (8th on merit list) from the University of
                     Pune, M.Sc (Manufacturing Systems Engg) with distinction from the University of Warwick, UK and MBA from Harvard Business School, USA.

                     He was the Executive Director of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (from 12 April 2004 until 31 March 2012), having headed Finance and Control, Legal and
                     International business functions of Bajaj Auto over different periods from 1994 until 2012 and currently is its non-executive director.

                     He is the Managing Director and CEO of:

                     l    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
                     l    Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.

                     He is the Chairman of:

                     l    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
                     l    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
                     l    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
                     l    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
                     l    Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.

                     Memberships

                     1.   Vice President of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) – 2020-21
                     2.   Past Chairman of Western Region of CII
                     3.   Board of ISB (Indian School of Business)
                     4.   International Advisory Board (IAB), Allianz SE
                     5.   International Technology Advisory Panel (ITAP) of Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS)
                     6.   Regional Stewardship Board for India and South Asia 2019-20 of World Economic Forum

                     Awards

                     1.   All India Management Association (AIMA) Managing India Awards
                     2.   Entrepreneur of the Year award 2019
                     3.   Economic Times - Business Leader of the Year India 2018
                     4.   Financial Express Best Banks Award – Banker of the Year 2017-18
                     5.   Asian Centre’s Leadership, Corporate Governance, Sustainability and CSR Awards - Transformational Leader Award 2018
                     6.   Ernst and Young - EY Entrepreneur of the Year India 2017
                     7.   India Today- Top 50 Power List 2017-18
                     8.   Bombay Management Association (BMA) - Entrepreneur of the Year Award 2015-16
                     9.   Business World - India’s Most Valuable CEOs in 2015 and 2016


                     Major Directorships:

                     1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
                     2.   Bajaj Finance Ltd.
                     3.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
                     4.   Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.
                     5.   Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.
                     6.   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
                     7.   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     8.   Jeewan Ltd.
                     9.   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.




                     12
                                                                                                                                             Notice




*Committee Chairmanship: Nil

*Committee Memberships:

1.   Bajaj Finance Ltd.
2.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
3.   Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.
4.   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
5.   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
6.   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: 7,69,224

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Operations and Engineering,
Information Technology, Human Resources, International business, Insurance, Mutual Fund and Financial Services, Banking, Investment and
Treasury and Forex Management, Corporate Governance and Ethics and such other areas.

He was first appointed on the Board with effect from 2 May 2007 and his last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2020-21 was
H 17.50 lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fee and
commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company except Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj.

None of the Directors, or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj, Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj and
Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj himself, are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding,
if any, in the Company.

The Board commends item no. 4 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

Statement under section 102 of the Act and regulation 36 (3) of the Listing Regulations

Item no. 5 of the Notice

At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company held on 17 March 2021, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, Pradeep Shrivastava, was re-appointed as the Whole-time Director with the designation as Executive Director of the Company for
another period of five years with effect from 1 April 2021 on the terms of remuneration mentioned herein below, with powers to the Board to
make such variation or increase therein as may be thought fit from time to time, but within the ceiling/s laid down in the Act or any statutory
amendment or relaxation thereof:

1.   Salary

     H 8 crore per annum comprising salary, allowances, retirals, bonus, performance reward etc., with such annual increments/increases/
     revisions as may be decided by the Board of Directors from time to time, during the tenure.

2.   Perquisites

     I.     Company’s contribution to provident fund and superannuation fund as per Company rules.

     II.    Gratuity as per Company rules.

     III.   Leave with full pay as per the rules of the Company, with Encashment of unavailed leave being allowed.
                                                                                                                                                      14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




     IV.    Reimbursement of medical expenses incurred for self and family or Medical Allowance as per Company rules.

     V.     Cover of Insurance policies and Contribution to Employee Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme as per Company rules.

     VI.    Cost of insurance cover against the risk of any financial liability or loss because of any error of judgement, wrongful act or
            such other reason as may be approved by the Board of Directors from time to time.




                                                                                                                                                13
                     Notice




                           VII.   Reimbursement of membership fee for one club.

                           VIII. Reimbursement of entertainment expenses incurred in the course of business of the Company.

                           IX.    Use of Company’s two cars maintained by the Company for official as well as for personal purpose with drivers’ salary as per
                                  Company rules.

                           X.     Telephone, tele-fax and other communication facilities at Company’s cost as per Company rules.

                           XI.    Subject to any statutory ceiling/s, the Executive Director may be given any other allowances, perquisites, benefits and facilities as
                                  the Board of Directors from time to time may decide.

                     3.    Valuation of perquisites

                           Perquisites/Allowances shall be valued as per Income Tax Rules, wherever applicable, and in the absence of any such rules, shall be
                           valued at actual cost.

                     4.    Stock Options

                           Stock Options as per the scheme(s) framed by the Company from time to time.

                     5.    Minimum remuneration

                           In the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during the tenure of the appointment, the Executive Director shall be
                           paid remuneration by way of salary and perquisites as set out above, as minimum remuneration, subject to restrictions, if any,
                           set out in schedule V to the Act, from time to time.

                     6.    Computation of ceiling

                           The following shall not be included in the computation of perquisites for the purposes of the ceiling:

                           a)     Contribution to provident and superannuation funds referred to in para 2 (I) above.

                           b)     Gratuity payable as per para 2 (II), to the extent of half a month’s salary for each completed year of service.

                           c)     Encashment of leave as per para 2 (III) above.

                     Information about the appointee:

                     Brief Resume

                     Pradeep Shrivastava (born on 31 March 1960) is qualified as a B. Tech (Mechanical Engineer) from IIT, Delhi 1981 and also as PGDM-1986 from
                     IIM, Bangalore.

                     He started his career as Asst. Engineer (Maintenance) in Tata Motors during 1981-1984.

                     He joined Bajaj Auto in 1986 and was its Chief Operating Officer at the time of his elevation as Executive Director with effect from 1 April 2016.

                     Directorships:

                     1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.

                     *Committee chairmanships and memberships: Nil

                     *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are Considered

                     Shareholding in the Company: 75

                     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Operations and Engineering, Manufacturing, Automobile
                     Engineering and Project Management and such other areas.

                     His last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2020-21 was H 8.31 crore. More details about the remuneration are available in the
                     Annual Report.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     Pradeep Shrivastava is not disqualified from being re-appointed as a Director in terms of section 164 of the Act.




                     14
                                                                                                                                                 Notice




This resolution is being proposed as a special resolution in view of the relevant provisions of Schedule V to the Act requiring a special resolution
for payment of minimum remuneration in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits.

The Company has entered into an agreement with Pradeep Shrivastava laying down, inter alia, the terms of remuneration referred to above and
the powers and authorities delegated to him.

A copy of the said agreement is available for inspection by the members through electronic mode upto the date of the meeting.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.

None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives except Pradeep Shrivastava is concerned or interested financially or
otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item no. 5 of the Notice.

The Board commends the special resolution set out in Item No. 5 for approval by shareholders.

Item no. 6 of the Notice

Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj (referred to hereafter as Shri Rahul Bajaj), after successfully leading Bajaj Auto Ltd (including erstwhile BAL) for
five decades stepped down as Executive Chairman and was appointed as a Non-executive Chairman by the Board of Directors with effect from
1 April 2020. Due to his age, Shri Rahul Bajaj has tendered his resignation as non-executive director and Chairman of the Company with effect
from close of business hours on 30 April 2021.

Shri Rahul Bajaj has made a huge contribution to the spectacular success of the Company and the Group over the last five decades. Considering
his tremendous experience, it would be in the interest of the Company to continue to benefit from his rich experience, valuable knowledge and
wisdom from time to time in an advisory role and as a mentor in the future as well.

In light of the above and in recognition of his services, the Board at its meeting held on 29 April 2021, on the recommendation of Nomination
and Remuneration Committee and with approval by the Audit Committee unanimously conferred upon Shri Rahul Bajaj, the status and title
of Chairman Emeritus of the Company for a term of five years with effect from 1 May 2021. Shri Rahul Bajaj as Chairman Emeritus, will, inter
alia, mentor, guide and provide perspective to the Board and management including in relation to the broad strategic aspects of the business,
corporate governance-related matters and support in establishing and enabling relations with external fora like Industry Chambers and
institutions etc. Further, he will be a permanent invitee to the Board meetings of the Company. If he attends any Board meeting of the Board,
it shall be in capacity as an invitee only, with no voting rights. Shri Rahul Bajaj, as the Chairman Emeritus shall not be deemed to be a director
for any purposes of the Act or any other statute or rules made thereunder.

Taking into account Shri Rahul Bajaj’s invaluable contribution to the Company for over five decades, the Board, at its meeting held on 29 April
2021 decided that to facilitate him functioning as Chairman Emeritus, Shri Rahul Bajaj may be extended certain facilities and made payments
during his tenure as Chairman Emeritus of the Company from 1 May 2021 as under:

l     Free furnished residential accommodation, including maintenance, gas, electricity and water costs.
l     Car with driver.
l     Reimbursement of medical expenses in India or abroad, including hospitalization, nursing home surgical charges, home nursing and
      attendant services and, in case of medical treatment abroad, airfare and boarding/lodging expenses for him and his attendant.
l     Such other payments, as may be decided by the Board from time to time, subject to a ceiling of H 3 crore per annum.

To facilitate Shri Rahul Bajaj to function efficiently as Chairman Emeritus, the Board has further approved that he be reimbursed certain
expenses incurred for official purposes, such as travelling expenses, telephone/communication expenses and expenses for maintenance of his
office with support staff and facilities. Such reimbursements would not amount to ‘remuneration’.

Shri Rahul Bajaj, being the father of Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and
Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj, non-executive director, is a “related party” in relation to the Company in terms of the Act. Accordingly,
the payments to be made and facilities to be provided to Shri Rahul Bajaj in his capacity as Chairman Emeritus, are related party transactions,
and therefore, require shareholders’ approval in accordance with the provisions of section 188 of the Act. This transaction is not a
material related party transaction in terms of regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations.

Information about the appointee:
                                                                                                                                                          14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Shri Rahul Bajaj, aged 82, has headed Bajaj Group of companies for over five decades. He is the recipient of many awards, including the
Padma Bhushan from the Government of India and honorary doctorates from many universities. He has a BA (honours) in economics, a law
degree from Mumbai University and an MBA from Harvard.




                                                                                                                                                     15
                     Notice




                     Shri Rahul Bajaj is a former member of the Rajya Sabha, former Chairman of Indian Airlines and former Chairman of the Board of Governors of
                     the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. He is also a former Chairman of the International Business Council, World Economic Forum;
                     a former member of the South Asia advisory board of Harvard Business School and a former member of the International Advisory Council of
                     the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC.

                     Shri Rahul Bajaj has been spearheading the charitable activities of Bajaj Group and its charitable trusts.

                     His remuneration as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Company during the financial year 2020-21 was H 6 crore approximately.

                     He is not related to any of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company, except Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj and Sanjivnayan
                     Rahulkumar Bajaj.

                     None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj, Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj
                     and Shri Rahul Bajaj himself, are directly or indirectly concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective
                     shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item no. 6 of the Notice.

                     The Board commends the ordinary resolution set out in item no. 6 for approval by shareholders.

                     Item no. 7 of the Notice

                     Section 197 of the Act, permits the payment of remuneration to a director who is neither a whole-time director nor a managing director
                     of a company, by way of commission not exceeding one percent of the net profits of the company, if the Company authorises such payment
                     by a special resolution. Shareholders of the Company had approved such payment by a special resolution passed on 27 July 2016 for
                     a five-year period, which expired on 31 March 2021.

                     In view of the increased demands on non-executive directors’ participation in Board and Committee meetings and the higher responsibilities
                     they are expected to bear in the interest of higher level of excellence in corporate governance on account of statutory and regulatory changes,
                     it is proposed to continue to pay such commission to the non-executive directors for a further period of five years upto and including
                     the year 2025-26.

                     The amount of commission shall be payable each year after the annual accounts are approved by the Board of Directors and adopted by the
                     shareholders.

                     Pursuant to the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2020, read with rules made thereunder, if a company fails to make profits or makes inadequate
                     profits in a financial year, any non-executive director of such company, including an independent director, may be paid remuneration in
                     accordance with Schedule V of the Act.

                     No approval of Central Government will be required for the said payment of commission, since it is within the prescribed limits as specified
                     under section 197. The above payment to non-executive directors will be in addition to the sitting fees payable to them for attending
                     Board/committee meetings, which at present is fixed at H 100,000 per meeting.

                     None of the Directors/key managerial personnel and/or their relatives, except the concerned non-executive director are directly or indirectly
                     concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, except to the extent of remuneration that may be received by them and their respective
                     shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in Item No. 7 of the Notice.

                     The Board commends the special resolution set out in item no. 7 for approval by shareholders.


                     By order of the Board of Directors
                     For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




                     Dr. J Sridhar
                     Company Secretary
                     Pune: 29 April 2021
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     16
CONTENTS
   Board of Directors                            02

   Management Team                               04

   Chairman’s Letter                             08

   Management Discussion and Analysis            11

   Corporate Governance                          33

   General Shareholder Information               57

   Directors’ Report                             69
   (including Annual Report on CSR activities)

   Standalone Financial Statements               101

   Consolidated Financial Statements             179
Board of Directors                        Duplicate Share Certificate          Company Secretary
                                          Issuance Committee
Rahul Bajaj, Chairman                                                          Dr. J Sridhar
Madhur Bajaj, Vice Chairman               Rajiv Bajaj, Chairman
Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director & CEO      Pradeep Shrivastava                  Auditors
Sanjiv Bajaj                              Rakesh Sharma
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                  S R B C & CO LLP
D J Balaji Rao                            Management                           Chartered Accountants
Niraj Bajaj
Dr. Gita Piramal                          Rajiv Bajaj                          Secretarial Auditor
Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director   Managing Director & CEO
Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                             Shyamprasad D. Limaye
Dr. Omkar Goswami                         Pradeep Shrivastava                  Practising Company Secretary
Anami N. Roy                              Executive Director
Rakesh Sharma, Executive Director                                              Bankers
Ms. Lila Poonawalla                       Rakesh Sharma
Pradip Shah                               Executive Director                   State Bank of India
Abhinav Bindra                                                                 Citibank N A
                                          Abraham Joseph                       Standard Chartered Bank
Audit Committee                           Chief Technology Officer             ICICI Bank
                                                                               HDFC Bank
Anami N. Roy, Chairman                    S Ravikumar                          HSBC Bank
D J Balaji Rao                            Chief Business Development Officer
Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                             Registered under the
Dr. Gita Piramal                          Soumen Ray                           Companies Act, 1956
                                          Chief Financial Officer
Stakeholders’ Relationship                                                     Registered Office
Committee                                 Ravi Kyran Ramasamy
                                          Chief Human Resources Officer        Mumbai-Pune Road,
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman                                                       Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
Dr. Gita Piramal                          Sarang Kanade
Dr. Omkar Goswami                         President (Motorcycle Business)      CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

Nomination & Remuneration                 Samardeep Subandh                    Works
Committee                                 President (Intra-City Business)
                                                                               l   Mumbai-Pune Road,
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman                  Kevin D’sa                               Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
Rahul Bajaj                               President (Retail Finance)
Dr. Gita Piramal                                                               l   Bajaj Nagar,
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        K S Grihapathy                           Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136.
                                          President (Export Business)
Corporate Social Responsibility                                                l   Chakan Industrial Area,
Committee                                 Eric Vas                                 Chakan, Pune 410 501.
                                          President (Urbanite Business)
Rahul Bajaj, Chairman                                                          l   Plot No.2, Sector 10,
Rajiv Bajaj                               Sumeet Narang                            IIE Pantnagar,
Pradeep Shrivastava                       President (Probiking Business)           Udhamsinghnagar,
Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                 Uttarakhand 263 531
                                          C P Tripathi
Risk Management Committee                 Advisor (CSR)

Anami N. Roy, Chairman
D J Balaji Rao
Soumen Ray, CFO
Rahul Bajaj
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S
LETTER
Dear Shareholder,

Who could have dreamt of the human and economic calamities that the world is going through because
of a virus called Covid-19? Nothing of this global scale has ever occurred before.

As I write this letter to you, over 141 million people have been struck by the disease and more than 3
million have perished. In India, as we are battling the second wave of the virus — a wave that is more
severe than the first — Covid-19 has claimed more than 14.8 million cases and some 177,150 deaths.

Everything suggests that, in epidemiological terms, things will get worse before getting better.

After the full national lockdown during 25 March to 30 April 2020 and partial lockdown that continued in
varying stages up to 30 November 2020, things were gradually moving for the better. Subsequent to the
first and second quarters of FY2021 — when real GDP crashed by 24.4% followed by another 7.3% —
we were beginning to see some green shoots of recovery. October-December 2020 showed a small but
positive GDP growth of 0.4%. We were looking forward to another quarter of positive growth in
January-March 2021.

With the second wave that started in March 2021, I doubt whether we will see that growth. More
worryingly, I am concerned about Q1 FY2022 and what a series of state-wide lockdowns might do to
businesses and economic growth.

In such disheartening circumstances, your Company has done quite well in not only limiting its
downside but also in posting relatively healthy results. Let me briefly share these.

l   Net sales for FY2021 was H 27,133 crore. Despite a decline of 6.8%, it was the third highest sales in
    Bajaj Auto’s history.
l   Operating earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) was H 5,063 crore —
    a reduction of 3.6% versus the previous year.
l   Operating EBITDA margin was 18.3% of net sales and other operating income, versus 17.6% in the
    previous year — representing an increase of 70 basis points in this Covid-19 year.
                                                                                                                14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




l   Though operating profit declined by 4.1% to H 4,797 crore, the operating profit margin was 17.3% of
    net sales and other operating income. This was 60 basis points higher than FY2020.
l   Profit before tax (PBT) declined by 9.7% to H 5,939 crore, Bajaj Auto’s third highest ever.
l   Profit after tax (PAT) decreased by 10.7% to H 4,555 crore. This was the Company’s third
    highest PAT.
l   Surplus cash and cash equivalent as on 31 March 2021 increased by 23.5% to H 17,689 crore.



                                                                                                            9
                     Chairman’s Letter




                                Given the circumstances, I believe that these are creditable results. Your managing director, Rajiv Bajaj,
                                his team and every employee of your Company should be collectively congratulated for the tremendous
                                efforts that they have made in the most difficult year that our country has witnessed.

                                Personally, I am delighted with the introduction of the new Chetak — a best-in-class electric scooter
                                with an iconic design. When booking for the Chetak was first rolled out in early 2020, it had to be
                                stopped on account of Covid-19 related supply chain disruptions.

                                Thereafter, your Company re-opened online bookings on 13 April 2021 but had to stop just 48 hours
                                later, owing to an overwhelming response. I expect to see your Company delivering this iconic model
                                in FY2022.

                                To each of us in Bajaj Auto, our people are our greatest assets. I am proud to say that amidst this
                                pandemic your Company has walked the extra mile to ensure health and safety for all employees.
                                As it is doing even now.

                                Let us hope that rapidly accelerated vaccinations coupled with a strict enforcement of masks and social
                                distancing will soon bring the second wave under control.

                                Let us also hope that we do not react to the epidemic by declaring more lockdowns, as we did the last
                                time. For these will destroy business, employment and the economy without necessarily controlling the
                                spread of the disease.

                                I have been your Company’s Chairman since the last 49 years. Given that I am getting along, it is the
                                time for change and to pass the mantle on to a younger person. I am happy to announce that your
                                Board has unanimously approved Niraj Bajaj as the next Chairman of Bajaj Auto. I wish him well and am
                                sure that he will do an excellent job.

                                That being so, this is my last Chairman’s Letter to you. Though I shan’t write to you through this forum
                                any further, rest assured that you and your Company will forever remain in my heart.

                                Stay safe. Vaccinate yourselves. Remain protected.

                                God bless you and your family.

                                Yours sincerely,




                                Rahul Bajaj
                                Chairman
                                29 April 2021
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     10
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
  As we stare at the dreadful new Covid spike        show that these have not worked to limit the
  that has engulfed many states of India, it is      spread of the virus. Instead, such lockdowns
  natural to be downcast and fearful. Yet, it is     create massive economic uncertainty; threaten
  important to say the truth.                        the livelihood of daily workers and the poor;
                                                     prompt needless urban-to-rural migration; and
  Yes, this spike is by the worst that we have       sharply accentuate fear in an already fearful
  seen. Equally, India has two vaccines in the       milieu.
  market, with one more having been approved
  and some more in the pipeline.                     That will be an unmitigated disaster. Let us not
                                                     make that mistake yet again.
  Yes, it is a major task to vaccinate those who
  are 18 years and above. But it is not              The solution is a combination of strictly
  insurmountable. During acute adversities, India    enforced safety — involving masks and basic
  has worked together to overcome the                social distancing — coupled with a rapidly
  challenges.                                        accelerated vaccination programme. And,
                                                     subject to basic safety and inoculation, work
  No, the solution is not another nationwide         must continue. For that is what brings in the
  lockdown; not even localised state-wide            daily bread, feeds home and hearth and makes
  lockdowns. Today, there is enough evidence to      a nation grow.


How did the economy fare?
Even before Covid, it was clear that real GDP growth was on a downward trend. Then came the full
nationwide lockdown from 25 March 2020 right upto 31 May 2020. GDP growth crashed by 24.4% in
April-June 2020, which was the worst quarterly slump ever. July-September 2020 also posted
a negative GDP growth of 7.3%.

Then things slowly began to look up. For October-December 2020, GDP growth swung into the positive
zone — tiny at 0.4% versus same quarter in the previous year, but positive nevertheless. As of now, we
do not have the data for January-March 2021, which will be published only at the end of May.
However, the Central Statistical Organisation estimates annual GDP growth for FY2021 at (-)8%.


GDP growth (India)
                                                                                                              14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                         11
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               Given the massive second spike that started from early March, it will be a very creditable achievement
                               if India’s growth rate for FY2021 contracts by no more than 8%.


                               How did motorcycles and three-wheelers fare within India?
                               How was India’s domestic sale of motorcycles and three-wheelers in this Covid year of FY2021?
                               Let us start with motorcycles. While FY2018 and FY2019 were years of impressive growth, in FY2020,
                               the number of motorcycles reportedly sold in India declined by 17.5% to 11.2 million units. Spurred by
                               Covid-19, the falling trend continued in FY2021, domestic motorcycle sales fell by a further 10.7% to
                               just a tad above 10 million.

                               Industry-wide domestic sale of three-wheelers fared worse, thanks to Covid-19. In FY2021 intra- and
                               inter-city movements were significantly curtailed and buyers kept three-wheeler purchases in
                               abeyance. Consequently, industry-wide domestic sale of three-wheelers crashed by 66.0% to under
                               216,200 units.


                               Industry sales (India)




                               How did Bajaj Auto fare?
                               Given below is the Company’s financial performance for FY2021, compared to the previous year.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                              Management Discussion and Analysis




  Charts A and B illustrate Bajaj Auto’s financial performance.


                                                      Chart A: EBITDA and EBITDA %                                                                                        EBITDA                         EBITDA%


                                                                                                                                                                                                            24
                                                      Chart A: EBITDA and EBITDA %
                                                         6000                                                                             22.2                            EBITDA                         EBITDA%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EBITDA (%EBITDA
                                                                                                                       21.2                            21.7
                                                         5500            21.7               20.4     20.2 19.6                                                 20.2                                        22
                                                                                                                                 20.1
                                                         5000                                                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                                                                                          17.5      17.6
                                                         6000
                                                         4500                                                                             22.2                                                             24
                                                                                                                                                                                                           18
                              In Crore)(H In Crore)




                                                                                                                       21.2                            21.7                                    18.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of total(%
                                                         5500
                                                         4000            21.7               20.4     20.2 19.6                                                 20.2                                        22
                                                                                                                                                                                                           16
                                                                                                                                 20.1
                                                         5000
                                                         3500                                                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                                                                                                                           14
                                                                             13.6                                                                                         17.5      17.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      operating
                                                         4500
                                                         3000                                                                                                                                              18
                                                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                                                                               18.3
                    EBITDA (H EBITDA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of total operating
                                                         4000
                                                         2500                                                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                                                                                                                           10
                                                         3500
                                                         2000                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                             13.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 income) income)
                                                         3000
                                                         1500                                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                         2500
                                                         1000                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                         2000
                                                          500                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                         1500
                                                            0                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                    FY2009

                                                                                FY2010

                                                                                            FY2011

                                                                                                     FY2012

                                                                                                              FY2013

                                                                                                                        FY2014

                                                                                                                                 FY2015

                                                                                                                                          FY2016

                                                                                                                                                      FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                           FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                     FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                FY2021
                                                         1000                                                                                                                                              4
                                                          500                                                                                                                                              2
                                                            0                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                    FY2009

                                                                                FY2010

                                                                                            FY2011

                                                                                                     FY2012

                                                                                                              FY2013

                                                                                                                        FY2014

                                                                                                                                 FY2015

                                                                                                                                          FY2016

                                                                                                                                                      FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                           FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                     FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                FY2021
                                                      Chart B: Total Operating Income,
                                                      Operating Profit and PAT                                           Total Operating Income                         Operating Profit                    PAT


                                                      Chart B: Total Operating Income,
                                                        32000                                                                                                                       5,100                  5500

                                                      Operating  Profit and PAT                                          Total Operating Income                         Operating Profit                    PAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                           5000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Operating Operating
                             Crore)(H In Crore)




                                                        28000
                                                                                                                                                                          4,675                            4500
                                                                                                                                          3,930                                                4,555       5500
                                                        32000
                                                        24000                                                                                                                       5,100                  4000
                                                                                                                                                               4,068
                                                                                             3,340                                                                                                         5000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Profit and Profit
                                                                                                                       3,243                         3,828                                                 3500
                          Income




                                                        28000
                                                        20000                                         3,004 3,044
                                                                                                                                                                          4,675                            4500
                                                                                                                                          3,930                                                4,555       3000
                                                        24000
                Income (H In




                                                        16000                                                                    2,814                                                                     4000
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2500
                                                                                                                                                               4,068
          Total Operating




                                                                                             3,340                                                   3,828

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PAT (Hand
                                                        20000                                                          3,243                                                                               3500
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2000
                                                        12000                                         3,004 3,044
                                                                                                                                                                                                           3000
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1500
                                                        16000                       1,704
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           In Crore)
                                                         8000                                                                    2,814                                                                      2500
Total Operating




                                                                                                                                                                                                            1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PAT (H In Crore)


                                                        12000
                                                         4000                                                                                                                                               2000
                                                                    656                                                                                                                                     500
                                                         8000 0                     1,704                                                                                                                  01500
                                                                    FY2009

                                                                                FY2010

                                                                                            FY2011

                                                                                                     FY2012

                                                                                                              FY2013

                                                                                                                        FY2014

                                                                                                                                 FY2015

                                                                                                                                           FY2016

                                                                                                                                                      FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                           FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                     FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                FY2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                           1000
                                                         4000                                                                                                                                               500
                                                                    656
                                                                0                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                    FY2009

                                                                                FY2010

                                                                                            FY2011

                                                                                                     FY2012

                                                                                                              FY2013

                                                                                                                        FY2014

                                                                                                                                 FY2015

                                                                                                                                           FY2016

                                                                                                                                                      FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                           FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                     FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                FY2021




                                                      Chart C: Industry's sale of Two-Wheelers,
                                                  Chart C shows the overall industry’s sale of two-wheelers
                                                                                                      Motorcycles                                                                     Other Two-Wheelers
                                                      Domestic + Exports (million units)

                                                      Chart27
                                                            C: Industry's sale of Two-Wheelers,
                                                                                                                                                    Motorcycles                       Other Two-Wheelers
                                                      Domestic
                                                           24 + Exports (million units)                                                                                     8.00
                                                                                                                                                                7.91
                                                           21
                                                           27                                                                                                                         6.59
                                                                                                                                                      6.81
                                                           18                                                                     5.47     6.03                                                  5.34
                                                           24                                                                                                               8.00
                                                                                                                        4.43                                    7.91      16.47
                                                           15
                                                           21                                        3.44     3.81
                                                                                                                                                               15.10                 6.59
                                                                                                                                                                                    14.35
                                                                                             2.83                                                     6.81
                                                          12
                                                          18                                                            12.46    13.00    12.91
                                                                                                                                           6.03      13.12                                      13.06
                                                                                                     11.94    11.95               5.47                                                           5.34
                                                                                2.07        10.50                       4.43
                                                            9                                                                                                             16.47
                                                           15       1.64                             3.44     3.81
                                                                                8.44                                                                           15.10
                                                                                                                                                                                    14.35
                                                           6        6.81                     2.83
                                                          12                                                            12.46    13.00    12.91      13.12                                      13.06
                                                                                                     11.94    11.95
                                                            3
                                                            9
                                                                                2.07        10.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                    1.64
                                                                                8.44
                                                            0
                                                            6
                                                                    FY2009

                                                                                FY2010

                                                                                            FY2011

                                                                                                     FY2012

                                                                                                              FY2013

                                                                                                                        FY2014

                                                                                                                                 FY2015

                                                                                                                                           FY2016

                                                                                                                                                      FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                           FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                     FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                FY2021




                                                                    6.81

                                                            3

                                                            0
                                                                    FY2009

                                                                                FY2010

                                                                                            FY2011

                                                                                                     FY2012

                                                                                                              FY2013

                                                                                                                        FY2014

                                                                                                                                 FY2015

                                                                                                                                           FY2016

                                                                                                                                                      FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                           FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                     FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                FY2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
Bajaj Auto’s Financial
Performance for FY2021
l   Net sales declined      l   Total operating        l   Operating earnings   l   The operating
    by 6.8% to                  income (net sales          before interest,         EBITDA margin
    K 27,133 crore.             plus other operating       tax, depreciation        is 18.3% of net
    Despite this                income) declined           and amortisation         sales and other
    reduction, it               by 7.3% to                 (EBITDA) declined        operating income,
    represnts the third         K 27,741 crore —           by 3.6% to               versus 17.6% in
    highest sales in            which is also              K 5,063 crore.           the previous year,
    Bajaj Auto’s history.       Bajaj Auto’s third                                  representing an
                                highest ever.                                       increase of 70 basis
                                                                                    points (bps) in this
                                                                                    Covid year.
l   Operating profit       l   Profit before tax     l   Profit after tax      l   Surplus cash and
    declined by 4.1% to        (PBT) declined            (PAT) decreased           cash equivalent as
    K 4,797 crore.             by 9.7% to                by 10.7% to               on 31 March 2021
                               K 5,939 crore,            K 4,555 crore.            increased by 23.5%
l   The operating profit       which was the             This was the third        to K 17,689 crore.
    margin is 17.3% of         Company’s third           highest PAT.
    net sales and other        highest.
    operating income
    — which is 60 bps
    higher than the
    previous year.

Therefore, despite a 10.7% drop in the total number of motorcycles sold by the industry in India and
a huge 66.0% decline in the number of three-wheelers sold, Bajaj Auto has done well for itself.
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               Bajaj Auto at a glance




                               Motorcycles
                               After excellent growth in FY2019, Indian industry’s domestic sale and exports of motorcycles declined
                               by 12.8% in FY2020 to 14.35 million units. In FY2021, it fell by another 9.0% to marginally above
                               13.06 million units.

                               How did Bajaj Auto perform in this scenario? Table 1 gives the data.

                               Table 1: Sale of Motorcycles, Domestic and Exports
                               Year ended           Industry sales         Industry      BAL’s sales           BAL's     BAL's market
                               31 March                      (nos.)         growth             (nos.)         growth            share


                               2016                       12,909,398          (0.7%)       3,358,252             2.0%           26.0%
                               2017                       13,120,072            1.6%       3,219,932           (4.1%)           24.5%
                               2018                       15,096,538           15.1%       3,369,334             4.6%           22.3%
                               2019                       16,465,529            9.1%       4,236,873           25.7%            25.7%
                               2020                       14,351,159         (12.8%)       3,947,356           (6.8%)           27.5%
                               2021                       13,057,275          (9.0%)       3,604,498           (8.7%)           27.6%

                               l   Domestic sales of all motorcycles across the industry in FY2021 declined by 10.7% to a bit over
                                   10 million units while exports declined by 3.2% to just over 3 million units.
                               l   Bajaj Auto’s domestic sales decreased by 13.0% to 1.8 million units and exports dropped by 3.9% to
                                   just under 1.8 million units.
                               l   The Company’s share in the domestic motorcycles market decreased by 50 bps to 18.0%
                                   and exports share dropped by 50 bps to 59.1% However, Bajaj Auto was able to hold on to its
                                   consoloidated share in domestic + exports.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     16
                                                                                    Management Discussion and Analysis




Domestic
Let us start with what we call the ‘mileage’ or ‘M’ segment, where Bajaj Auto is represented by various
models of the CT, the Platina and the Pulsar 125. It is the largest segment and is an extremely price and
fuel cost conscious segment and generates, marginal profits per unit sold.

‘M’ segment




l   In FY2021, thanks to the lockdown that virtually wiped out April-June 2020, plus cost increases
    imposed by the transition to BS-VI, the industry’s total billings in this segment fell by a further 10.7%
    to an average of 6.49 lakh units per month. We did better. Our billings fell by 4.9% to an average of
    98,845 units per month. Consequently, BAL’s market share in the segment increased by 90 bps to 15.2%.
l   That we actually increased our market share in this segment in an extremely difficult Covid-19
    plagued year is testimony to the sales performance of our upgraded Platina and the more powerful
    and sleekly designed Pulsar 125. Successfully introducing the Pulsar 125 in this ‘mileage’ segment
    has created a new buzz and attracted a new set of first-time customers.

FY2021 was the second consecutive year of a sales downturn in the mileage segment of India’s
motorcycle market. Though Bajaj Auto also faced a decline, it did better than others and actually
increased its market share by 90 bps. This was largely because of the excitement caused by the
introduction of exciting new models — especially the Pulsar 125 which made the otherwise plain
segment look more exhilarating than before.


‘S’ segment


                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                   17
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               The next market slice that we operate in India is the ‘sports’ or ‘S’ segment, where we have five models
                               of our Pulsar ranging from 150cc to 220cc and two variants of the Avenger.
                               l   Here, too, for all players put together, the segment saw sales drop by 15% in FY2021 to an average
                                   of 118,476 units per month.
                               l   Largely on account of a sharp decline in sales during April-June 2020, our average monthly sales by
                                   volume for the year fell by 29.1%. Consequently, despite a smart pickup in the next three quarters,
                                   our market share in this segment was 37.3% in FY2021 and we continue to be market leader with
                                   the next player’s share being 22.7%

                               Despite a drop in sales in FY2021, Bajaj Auto still remained the clear leader in the sports segment with
                               a healthy market share that exceeded 37%.




                               ‘SS’ segment




                               At the top end of the value chain is the ‘super-sports’ segment, where we offer the entire range of
                               KTMs, Husqvarnas, Pulsar RS200 and Dominars.
                               l   In FY2021, this super-sports segment saw a far more modest decline in domestic sales compared
                                   to others. For the industry as a whole, average sales reduced by 4.4% to 67,077 units per month.
                                   Bajaj Auto bucked the trend and sold an average of 7,684 units per month, a growth of 10.8% and
                                   accounted for 11.6% of this market.



                                   The writing on the wall is clear. In a pandemic wracked year, when virtually all segments
                                   showed serious de-growth in sales, the ‘super-sports’ segment was the least affected.

                                   There is a fundamental change in urban India’s approach to motorcycle purchases.

                                   Younger customers — even in the entry-level segment — desire bikes that have classy looks,
                                   appeal and power. Hence the success of our Pulsar 125.

                                   In the ‘sports’ and the ‘super-sports’ segments, there are enough in the under-40 generation
                                   who have the wallet size and sufficient access to bank credit to own bikes that possess
                                   best-in-class looks, power, speed and manoeuvrability.

                                   With our upper-end Pulsars, KTMs, Dominars, Husqvarnas and the soon to be launched
                                   Triumphs, we expect to have an even more solid presence in these segments.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     18
                                                                                                  Management Discussion and Analysis




KTM and Probiking
The Probiking business now comprises two brands — KTM and Husqvarna — and four forms of
motorbikes: Naked Sport, Street, Racing and Adventure. The business displayed remarkable resilience
in these challenging times by recovering 99% of FY2020 sales. The year marked some special
highlights which helped business recovery.
l   Over 80% of the KTM showrooms completed their revamp and upgradation to house both the KTMs
    and the Husqvarnas and added over 100,000 square feet of retail space to the network.
l   New models like Husqvarna and KTM Adventure established themselves and found a stable footing
    in the market. Adventure 250 was launched to join its 390cc sibling.
l   The KTM brand is being built around unprecedented probiking experiences for its customers.
    The business formed a Ride and Community Management capability and launched multiple
    first-in-market experiences across Adventure, Street and Track. Each such experience is on
    specially curated routes and led by master trainers. These have helped KTM owners to bond
    into a community and made them better and safer bikers.
l   The KTM Duke200 was relaunched in its second generation form while Duke250 was upgraded with
    premium features.

KTM crossed the 64,000 unit mark in FY2020. It succeeded in selling 63,187 units during a year when
so many other major brands were in a state of decline.

Chart D plots the growth of KTM sales in India.


                    Chart D: KTM Sales in India (number of bikes sold)                             Sales in India


                70000                                                                                64,058      63,187
                60000
                                                                                       50,705
                50000                                                        46,321
Annual Volume




                40000                                             34,970
                                                        30,362
                30000
                                             22,627
                20000
                                   11,050
                10000    7,399

                    0
                          FY2013



                                    FY2014



                                               FY2015



                                                         FY2016



                                                                    FY2017



                                                                              FY2018



                                                                                         FY2019



                                                                                                        FY2020



                                                                                                                    FY2021




Scooters: Reincarnation of the Chetak
For many decades, Bajaj Auto was synonymous with its Chetak. We have re-introduced the legendary
brand as a best-in-class electric scooter with an iconic design and have created an object of beauty and
aesthetics.

The classic style of the new Chetak is designed to delight. It is made of steel and built to last. It can
offer a ride of up to 95 km in the Eco mode per single full charge of its battery. It represents the future
                                                                                                                                       14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




of mobility.

Simple lines and smooth surfaces are seamlessly woven together with perfect detailing and are
available in six colours. With features likes horseshoe shaped LED headlight, daytime running lamps,
feather touch activated electronic switches, sequential scrolling rear LED blinkers and a digital console
that intuitively displays key vehicle information, the Chetak is a thing of beauty.



                                                                                                                                 19
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               At its heart is a IP67 rated high-tech Lithium Ion battery that can be easily charged using a standard
                               5 amp electrical outlet. The on-board Intelligent Battery Management System seamlessly controls the
                               charging and discharging.

                               Besides, the Chetak offers a fully-connected riding experience — being embedded with mobility
                               solutions like data communication, security and user authentication. The Chetak mobile app gives
                               riders a comprehensive overview of all aspects of the vehicle and its ride history.
                               The new Chetak is being made at a state-of-the-art, temperature controlled facility at Chakan, Pune to
                               exacting standards using the best materials and cutting edge robotic technology.

                               The excitement to purchase a Chetak is palpable. When booking for the Chetak was first rolled out in
                               early 2020, it had to be stopped on account of Covid-19 related disruptions. Thereafter, the Company
                               re-opened online bookings at 9 AM on 13 April 2021 but had to stop taking bookings just 48 hours later,
                               owing to overwhelming demand. Bajaj Auto expects to start delivering this iconic model in the course of
                               the second quarter of FY2022.


                               Three-Wheelers
                               Bajaj Auto is the world’s largest manufacturer and seller of three-wheelers. Our performance in this
                               segment is given in Table 2.

                               Table 2: Three-Wheeler Sale, Industry and Bajaj Auto (in numbers)

                                                                   Total sales            Domestic sales            Export sales
                               Particulars                      FY2021       FY2020       FY2021      FY2020      FY2021       FY2020



                               Passenger carriers
                               Industry sales                   521,424    1,020,865      134,087     525,015     387,337      495,850
                               Bajaj Auto sales                 332,572     629,326        81,618     334,714     250,954      294,612
                               Bajaj Auto market share            63.8%          61.6%     60.9%       63.8%        64.8%        59.4%
                               Goods carriers
                               Industry sales                    87,714     117,873        82,110     111,554        5,604         6,319
                               Bajaj Auto sales                  30,932          32,191    27,686      30,103        3,246         2,088
                               Bajaj Auto market share            35.3%          27.3%     33.7%       27.0%        57.9%        33.0%
                               Total three-wheelers
                               Industry sales                   609,138    1,138,738      216,197     636,569     392,941      502,169
                               Bajaj Auto sales                 363,504     661,517       109,304     364,817     254,200      296,700
                               Bajaj Auto market share            59.7%          58.1%     50.6%       57.3%        64.7%        59.1%
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     20
                                                                                Management Discussion and Analysis




   l    Our domestic sale of three-wheelers fell to 109,304 units primarily due to a reduction in
        passenger three-wheeler sales across the industry on account of Covid-19. However, we
        continued to be the market leader, accounting for 50.6% of all three-wheeler sales and
        60.9% of passenger vehicle sales.
   l    A sequential recovery was witnessed - in Q1 FY2021, Bajaj Auto sold 5,309 units. In Q2, this
        had increased to 23,392, in Q3, 34,230 and in Q4, we sold 46,373 units.
   l    In the goods carriers segment, we now account for 33.7% of the domestic market — up from
        27.0% a year earlier.
   l    We continue to be the dominant exporter among Indian sellers accounting for a market
        share of 64.7% in FY2021 up from 59.1% in FY2020
   l    In FY2021, we wrested leadership in the Big Diesel Passenger Segment and are now leader
        with a 41.7% market share. With this, we are now leaders across all passenger
        three-wheeler segments.



Three-Wheelers




International Business
We are The World’s Favourite Indian thanks to the reach of our international business.

   In FY2021
   l   We exported 2.05 million vehicles. This is the third year in succession that we have exported
       over 2 million vehicles.
   l   In a difficult global market scenario, we exported almost 1.8 million motorcycles.
   l   There was a sharply contrasting growth performance between the first and second half
       of the year. Motorcycles and commercial vehicles witnessed a decline of 33% and 35%
       respectively in the first half. This turned to growth of 25% for motorcycle and 9% for
       commercial vehicles in the second half.
   l   Except ASEAN, all regions have shown strong recovery in the second half of FY2021.


Table 3 gives the export data.
Table 3: Exports, in Units and Revenue for, Bajaj Auto

Particulars                                                        FY2021         FY2020         Change



Units
Motorcycles                                                      1,796,518      1,869,220          -3.9%
                                                                                                                     14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Commercial Vehicles                                                257,729       301,885          -14.6%
Total numbers                                                   2,054,247      2,171,105          -5.4%
Exports in K (crore)                                               12,687         12,216           3.9%
Exports in USD (million)                                             1,651          1,642          0.5%



                                                                                                               21
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               International Business - Exports




                               Regarding motorcycles:
                               l  Our 150cc+ motorcycles grew at 21% versus the previous year. The Dominar brands (both 250cc
                                  and 400cc) grew at 91%, though over a smaller base.
                               l  In Latin America, we recorded highest ever volumes in many key countries, such as Mexico,
                                  Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras, Peru and Bolivia.
                               l  We continued our dominance in Africa, where we exported over 1 million motorcycles for the second
                                  consecutive year.

                               Regarding commercial vehicles:
                               l  Due to Covid-19 related restrictions in most countries, recovery in commercial vehicle business has
                                  been slow.
                               l  However, an increased focus on new segments like cargo plus the launch of new and refreshed
                                  RE variants led to recovery in the second half of the year. Egypt, where exports were impacted by
                                  regulatory issues last year, has grown by 255% over the previous year.

                               Chart E plots our export performance over the years, both in value and as a percentage of the
                               Company’s total net sales.



                                                           Chart E: Bajaj Auto’s Export Performance                                       Exports             As a % of Net Sales


                                                       13000
                                                                                                                                                                                46.8     50
                                                                                                                        46.2
                                                       12000                                                                     44.1                                                    45
                                                                                                              41.6                                                     42.0
                                                       11000                                                                                         39.3 40.1                           40
                                                                                                                                            36.9
                                                                                                                                                                                              As a % of Net Sales




                                                       10000
                                                                                           34.2 34.4
                                Exports (H In Crore)




                                                                                                                                                                                         35
                                                        9000   31.3
                                                        8000             28.2 28.0                                                                                                       30
                                                        7000                                                                                                                             25
                                                        6000
                                                                                                                                                                                         20
                                                        5000
                                                        4000                                                                                                                             15
                                                        3000                                                                                                                             10
                                                        2000
                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                        1000
                                                           0                                                                                                                             0
                                                                FY2009

                                                                         FY2010

                                                                                  FY2011

                                                                                            FY2012

                                                                                                     FY2013

                                                                                                               FY2014

                                                                                                                        FY2015

                                                                                                                                 FY2016

                                                                                                                                            FY2017

                                                                                                                                                     FY2018

                                                                                                                                                              FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                       FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                FY2021
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               As Chart E shows, we have not only increased the value of our exports in FY2021, but have also
                               increased the share as a percentage of net sales, which now stands at 46.8%.




                     22
                                                                               Management Discussion and Analysis




R&D
In FY2021 despite Covid-19, Bajaj Auto’s R&D achieved all the product launches that were planned
for the year.

R&D Projects
R&D successfully delivered fourty-one projects in various product segments to meet the Company’s
domestic and export requirements. These were:

l   Commuter segment: Nine launches.
l   Sports segment: Six launches.
l   Super-sport or Premium segment: Three launches.
l   Commercial segment: Twenty three launches.

Some of the strategic products that were launched are given below.




                   To take commuting bikes to the next level of safety, R&D has introduced the ABS
                                                                                                                    14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                   technology on the Platina 110. This innovative product brings unprecedented levels of
                   safety during braking under difficult conditions like wet, oily or gravelly roads.




                                                                                                              23
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                                 The popular Pulsar 125 Neon range was strengthened with
                                 the addition of sportier split seat variant. This has been met
                                 with excellent response in the market.




                                                   The best-in-class KTM Adventure 390 was joined by a more affordable 250cc variant, thus
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                   expanding the popularity of this evolving segment and building on KTM’s off-road heritage.




                     24
                                                                                   Management Discussion and Analysis




Gaseous Fuel Three-Wheeler
with instant Switchover
R&D has introduced gaseous fuel three-wheeler with an innovative capability to instantly switch from
gas to petrol or vice versa. This can be done on the fly as the vehicle is moving, unlike the competitions’
models that need to stop and wait for minutes to burn off the fuel in the carburettor before switching
fuels. This was implemented across the entire range of Bajaj Auto’s gaseous three-wheeler portfolio.




                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                 This strategic model was created for Nigeria with a 10” wheel and a bigger
                 engine for greater strength and durability. It has been met with excellent
                 response in the market.




                                                                                                                  25
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               BS-VI Transition
                               All the BS-VI launches were supported to ensure smooth transition.



                               R&D Facilities
                               The EV Laboratory
                               In October 2020, BAL’s R&D went live with a 25,000 square feet EV Laboratory to design and develop EV
                               technologies. The laboratory is equipped with critical capabilities for manufacturing and testing EV
                               components and vehicles.

                               The EV lab is being continuously augmented in both capacity and capability to meet all the emerging
                               needs of creating EV products.

                               Electro-Magnetic Compatibity (EMC) Chamber
                               Increasing electronics on vehicles and stringent norms on components regarding EMC and
                               electro-magnetic interference have made the design and validation of EMI/EMC performance of both
                               components and vehicles a necessity. BAL has created a new EMI/EMC facility in R&D to meet this need.
                               This will also enable Bajaj Auto to reduce its dependence on external agencies for conducting such
                               test — resulting in saving both time and cost.



                               Operations, Productivity and Quality
                               TPM
                               Bajaj Auto’s ‘back end’ consists of its manufacturing, engineering, development and materials functions.
                               Principles and philosophy of TPM guides these in achieving excellence both individually and collectively.
                               ‘The TPM way’ has been successfully extended to include Bajaj Auto’s vendors, dealers and distributors
                               with an aim to create a culture of excellence across the entire supply chain.

                               Bajaj Auto’s TPM at operations
                               Bajaj Auto is ‘first-in-the-industry’ in having all its manufacturing plants certified for ‘Special Award for
                               TPM Achievement’ by Japan Institute for Plant Maintenance (JIPM). In FY2020, BAL Chakan plant was
                               also conferred with “Advance Special Award for TPM Achievement”.

                               Vendor TPM activities
                               Bajaj Auto supports its vendors to become globally competitive in terms of safety, quality, production,
                               delivery, cost and human development.

                               Currently 174 Tier I vendors are practicing TPM and 128 of them have earned the ‘BAL TPM Award’.
                               Moreover there are now 295 Tier II vendors who are practicing TPM. In addition, we have actively
                               encouraged our vendors to adopt best practices in energy and water conservation.

                               We have also taken up a drive to maximise supplies to all our plants from vendors within the plant
                               cluster. This has substantially reduced our supply chain length and the carbon footprint with almost
                               85% of supplies for all plants being made by vendors within their own clusters.

                               TPM in after-sales service
                               TPM methodologies are being continuously spread across our domestic dealership and international
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               distributor networks.

                               As on 31 March 2021, we had 550 dealerships practicing TPM; and we have extended the TPM initiative
                               to our sub-dealers.

                     26
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               TPM at overseas distributor plants
                               We started implementation of TPM at our international distributor plants. As of FY2021, 12 distributor
                               plants have been practicing TPM for over a year. Consequently, these are now experiencing somewhere
                               between 15% and 20% growth in manpower productivity, production rate and first-time right quality.



                               Women Employment
                               Our women employee strength has grown more than four times from 148 in FY2014 to 654 in FY2021.
                               Of them, almost 70% women are working in manufacturing plants and in engineering.

                               Some of our female employees are doing complex jobs like dynamic testing of bikes.

                               Capacity and Employee Strength
                               Table 4: Plant-wise Capacities (in units per annum)

                               Plant                              As on 31 March 2021 Product Range



                               Waluj                Motorcycles             2,400,000 Boxer, CT, Platina, Discover, Pulsar
                                                    Commercial Vehicles      930,000 Passenger Carriers, Good Carriers, Quadricycle
                                                                           3,330,000
                               Chakan               Motorcycles             1,200,000 Pulsar, Avenger, KTM, Dominar, Husqvarna, Chetak
                               Pantnagar            Motorcycles             1,800,000 CT, Platina and Pulsar
                                                                           6,330,000


                               As on 31 March 2021, BAL’s employee strength stood at 10,052.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     28
                                                                                 Management Discussion and Analysis




Financials
Table 5 gives the summarised standalone profit and loss statement of Bajaj Auto.

Table 5: Summarised Standalone Profit and Loss Statement
                                                                                                (H In Crore)

Particulars                                                                        FY2021         FY2020


Operations
Sales                                                                               27,133         29,112
Other operating income                                                                608              807
Total operating income                                                             27,741         29,919


Cost of materials consumed, net of expenditures capitalised                         19,597         20,978
                                                                                    70.6%           70.1%
Stores and tools                                                                      116              130
                                                                                     0.4%            0.4%
Employee cost                                                                        1,283           1,386
                                                                                     4.6%            4.6%
Factory, administrative and other expenses                                            717              866
                                                                                     2.6%            2.9%
Sales and after sales expenses                                                        965            1,306
                                                                                     3.5%            4.4%
Total expenditure                                                                  22,678         24,666
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)               5,063           5,253
EBITDA%                                                                             18.3%          17.6%
Interest                                                                                 7                3
Depreciation and amortisation                                                         259              246
Operating profit                                                                    4,797           5,004
                                                                                    17.3%           16.7%
CSR spends and donations                                                              131              154
Operating profit less CSR spends and donations                                      4,666           4,850
Non-operating income                                                                 1,276           1,733
Less : Non-operating expense                                                             3                3
Non-operating income, net                                                           1,273           1,730
Profit before tax                                                                   5,939           6,580
Tax expense                                                                          1,384           1,480
Profit after tax                                                                    4,555           5,100


Surplus cash and cash equivalents as on 31 March                                   17,689         14,322


Return on Operating Capital Employed (ROCE)                                         189%            336%

l   Our surplus funds are invested in (i) fixed income securities rated P1+ and equivalent for short term
    investments, (ii) AA+ and above rated securities for long term investments and (iii) fixed deposits
    with banks and finance companies.
                                                                                                                      14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                29
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               As required for listed companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Table 6 gives the
                               key ratios.

                               Table 6: Bajaj Auto’s Key Financial Ratios, Standalone

                               Particulars                   FY2021      FY2020 Remarks



                               Debtors Turnover Ratio            9.99      16.88 Lower turnover due to COVID related lockdown/
                                                                                 disruptions and increase in outstandings due to
                                                                                 challenging business environment
                               Inventory Turnover Ratio         13.13      19.75 Lower turnover due to COVID related lockdown/
                                                                                 disruptions and increase in overall value of inventory
                               Current Ratio                     2.51       1.55 Value of investments maturing within 1 year have
                                                                                 gone up from H 2,779.75 crore in FY2020 to
                                                                                 H 8,028.11 crore in FY2021
                               Operating Profit Margin         17.3%      16.7%
                               Net Profit Margin               15.7%      16.1%
                               Return on Net Worth             18.1%      25.6% Lower profits due to COVID related lockdown/disruptions



                               Subsidiaries
                               Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV)
                               Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV) is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of
                               Bajaj Auto Ltd. Over the years, through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of €198.1 million
                               (H 1,219 crore) and holds approximately 48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM), the fastest growing
                               motorcycle brand in the world.

                               Calendar year 2020 was impacted due to Covid-19.
                               l  KTM sold 208,852 motorcycles versus 213,949 in the previous year.
                               l  KTM achieved a turnover of €1.41 billion compared to €1.51 billion in the previous year.
                               l  Profit after tax was at €71.2 million (H 638 crore) versus €84.6 million (H 670 crore).
                               l  The proportionate profit to Bajaj Auto Ltd. €34.1 million (H 306 crore) as against €40.6 million
                                  (H 322 crore) in the previous year, which shows up in the consolidated results.

                               During the year, Bajaj Auto manufactured 148,183 units of KTM and Husqvarna at its Chakan plant.
                               Of these, 63,187 units were sold through the Pro-biking network and 79,832 were exported.


                               Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
                               Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand with an issued
                               and subscribed share capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H 11 crore). It has obtained all necessary
                               approvals from local authorities to set up an International Business Centre (IBC) and an Engineering
                               Design Centre (EDC) under this subsidiary.

                               While the start of the activity was delayed by the pandemic, the EDC is now operational and
                               international designers are operating from this new facility in Bangkok. It marks a new beginning for
                               Bajaj Auto’s R&D expanding its design centre to trend-defining markets around the globe. Full scale
                               operations including IBC is likely to commence in the coming year.


                               New Offices
                               Bajaj Auto is also going to set up an Engineering Design Centre in Barcelona Spain. It is also in the
                               process of setting up operations to address the motocycle market in Brazil thru a wholly owned
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               subsidiary




                     30
                     Management Discussion and Analysis




                               Consolidation of accounts and
                               segment reporting
                               Table 7: Segment Revenue and Segment Results
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)

                               Segment Revenue                                                                      FY2021           FY2020



                               Automotive                                                                             27,750          29,968
                               Investment and others                                                                   1,268             1,475
                                                                                                                     29,018          31,443


                               Segment Results
                               Profit/(Loss) from each segment before tax
                               Automotive                                                                              4,984             5,223
                               Investment and others                                                                   1,264             1,472
                                                                                                                       6,248             6,695
                               Less : Interest                                                                             7                 3
                               Profit before tax                                                                       6,241             6,692
                               Profit after tax                                                                        4,857             5,212



                               Outlook
                               Thanks to Covid-19, FY2021 was an extremely difficult year. It speaks volumes for Bajaj Auto that it
                               survived the complete break in the supply chain during the lockdown and then turned around
                               operations to almost the pre-Covid levels by the third quarter of the year. As we were looking forward
                               to higher growth, the virus struck even more virulently from March 2021 —with many states and local
                               governments announcing local lockdowns.

                               At this stage, it is challenging to predict how long the second spike will last and how bad will it be.
                               Therefore, it is difficult to share how Bajaj Auto will do in FY2022.

                               However, we can say two things with certainty.
                               1. First, we as a responsible enterprise, will do all that is needed to ensure that our employees and
                                  their families remain safe in this pandemic.
                               2. Second, we will be persistent with our efforts to offer best-in-class motorcycles across the entire
                                  spectrum in which we operate. You will see new models and variants being introduced without fail
                                  to enthuse our customers in more ways than one.

                               We are a financially strong enterprise that enjoys great brand value. If we can’t overcome this crisis by
                               moving ahead, who can?


                               Cautionary Statement
                               Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s objectives,
                               projections, estimates and expectations may be ‘forward looking’ within the meaning of applicable laws
                               and regulations. Actual results may differ from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could
                               make a difference to the Company’s operations include global economy, political stability, stock
                               performance
                               on stock markets, changes in government regulations, tax regimes, economic developments and
                               other incidental factors. Except as required by law, the Company does not undertake to update any
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Investors are advised to exercise
                               due care and caution while interpreting these statements.




                     32
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance is about promoting fairness, transparency, accountability, commitment to values,
ethical business conduct and considering the interest of all stakeholders while conducting business.

In accordance with the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and amendments thereto (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), given below are the corporate
governance policies and practices of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’, ‘Bajaj Auto’ or ‘BAL’) for the year
2020-21 (or ‘FY2021’).

This report states compliance as per requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and SEBI
Listing Regulations, as applicable to the Company. As will be seen, Bajaj Auto’s corporate governance
practices and disclosures have gone well beyond complying with the statutory and regulatory
requirements stipulated in the applicable laws, including the SEBI Listing Regulations.

Philosophy
For us, corporate governance is a reflection of principles entrenched in our values and policies and also
embedded in our day-to-day business practices, leading to value-driven growth. The commitment of the
Bajaj group to the highest standards of good governance practices predate SEBI and the provisions of
the SEBI Listing Regulations. Ethical dealings, transparency, fairness, disclosure and accountability
are the fundamental canons of the Bajaj group. Bajaj Auto Ltd. maintains the same tradition
and commitment.

Key elements of Bajaj Auto’s corporate governance
l   Number of Board meetings exceed the statutory requirement, including meetings dedicated to
    discussing strategy, operating plans and risk.
l   The Company’s Board comprises directors from diverse backgrounds and substantial experience,
    who are able to provide appropriate guidance to the executive management as required.
l   The Board comprises independent directors with outstanding track record and reputation.
l   All Board members are invited and encouraged to be present at committee meetings, even if they
    are not members.
l   There are pre-audit committee meetings of the chairman of the audit committee with the statutory
    auditors, the internal auditor and such members of executive management who are process
    owners.
l   There are separate meetings of independent directors without presence of non-independent
    directors or executive management.
l   There is a confidential Board evaluation process where each Board member evaluates the
    performance of every other director, committees of the Board, the Chairman of the Board and the
    Board itself.
l   Presentations by key senior management team members of the Company and its subsidiaries are
    regularly made to familiarize directors with key elements of each business.
l   Complete and detailed information are provided in advance to Board members.
l   Key governance policies are placed on Company’s website.
l   A Half-yearly letter from the management is sent to all shareholders of the Company.
l   The Company monitors its governance through a dedicated governance team.
                                                                                                                 14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Further details of these principles are highlighted in the appropriate sections in this document.




                                                                                                            33
                     Corporate Governance




                               Board of directors
                               The Company’s policy is to have an appropriate blend of executive, independent and non-independent
                               directors to maintain independence of the Board and to separate the Board functions of governance
                               from that of management.


                               Composition
                               As per regulation 17(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, where the Chairman is non-executive
                               or a promoter, at least one half of the Board of a Company should consist of independent directors.
                               As Table 1 shows, this provision is met at BAL.

                               As on 31 March 2021, the Board consisted of 16 directors, of whom three were executive (including the
                               managing director), eight were non-executive as well as independent (including two women independent
                               directors) and five were non-executive and non-independent. The Board has no institutional
                               nominee director.

                               Further particulars about the directors are mentioned in the Board’s Report.


                               Number of meetings of the Board
                               During FY2021, the Board met five times: 20 May 2020, 22 July 2020, 22 October 2020, 21 January 2021
                               and 17 March 2021. The gap between any two meetings has been less than 120 days.

                               As per the relaxation given by MCA due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all the Board and committees
                               meetings of the Company during the year under review were held through video conferencing.


                               Attendance record of directors
                               Table 1 gives the composition of Bajaj Auto’s Board and the attendance record of its directors.

                               Table 1: Composition of the Board and attendance record of directors
                               for FY2021
                                                                                                                   No. of
                                                                                                       No. of      Board     Whether
                                                                          Relationship with         shares held   Meetings   attended
                               Name of director Category                  other directors           by director   attended   last AGM



                               Rahul Bajaj        Chairman,               Father of Rajiv Bajaj
                                                  non-executive           and Sanjiv Bajaj           10,48,796      5/5          Yes
                               Madhur Bajaj       Vice Chairman,          Brother of Shekhar
                                                  non-executive           Bajaj and Niraj Bajaj      13,56,030      5/5          Yes
                               Rajiv Bajaj        Managing Director and   Son of Rahul Bajaj,
                                                  CEO, executive          brother of Sanjiv Bajaj     7,56,200      5/5          Yes
                               Sanjiv Bajaj       Non-executive           Son of Rahul Bajaj,
                                                                          brother of Rajiv Bajaj      7,69,224      5/5          Yes
                               Shekhar Bajaj      Non-executive           Brother of Madhur
                                                                          Bajaj and Niraj Bajaj        7,220        5/5          Yes
                               D J Balaji Rao     Non-executive,
                                                  independent                        –                   –          5/5          Yes
                               Niraj Bajaj        Non-executive           Brother of Madhur
                                                                          Bajaj and Shekhar
                                                                          Bajaj                       8,13,022      5/5          Yes
                               Dr. Gita Piramal   Non-executive,
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                  independent                        –                   –          5/5          Yes
                               Pradeep            Executive Director
                               Shrivastava                                           –                  75          5/5          Yes



                     34
                                                                                                  Corporate Governance




Table 1: Composition of the Board and attendance record of directors
for FY2021 (Contd.)
                                                                                        No. of
                                                                            No. of      Board     Whether
                                                     Relationship with   shares held   Meetings   attended
Name of director Category                            other directors     by director   attended   last AGM



Dr. Naushad            Non-executive,
Forbes                 independent                             –            3,500        5/5         Yes
Dr. Omkar              Non-executive,
Goswami                independent                             –              _          5/5         Yes
Anami N. Roy           Non-executive,
                       independent                             –              _          5/5         Yes
Rakesh Sharma          Executive Director                      –              –          5/5         Yes
Ms. Lila               Non-executive,
Poonawalla             independent                             –              –          5/5         Yes
Pradip Shah            Non-executive,
                       independent                             –            4,000        5/5         Yes
Abhinav Bindra*        Non-executive,
                       independent                             –              –          4/4         Yes
* Appointed as an independent director w.e.f. 20 May 2020.



Board diversity
The Board comprises adequate number of members with diverse experience and skills, such that
it best serves the governance and strategic needs of the Company. The directors are persons of eminence
in areas such as business, industry, finance, law, administration, economics etc. and bring with them
experience and skills which add value to the performance of the Board. The directors are selected
purely on the basis of merit with no discrimination on race, colour, religion, gender or nationality.

A brief profile of the directors is available on the website of the Company at
https://www.bajajauto.com/about-us/our-team


Opinion of the Board
The Board confirms that, in its opinion, the independent directors on the Board fulfil the conditions
specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations and the Act and are independent of the management.


Non-executive directors’ compensation
The shareholders of the Company through a special resolution passed at the annual general meeting of the
Company held on 27 July 2016 have, by way of an enabling provision, approved payment of commission
up to a sum not exceeding one percent of the net profits of the Company, calculated in accordance with the
provisions of section 197 and 198 of the Act, to the non-executive directors, in the manner as may be
decided by the Board of directors from time to time during the five year term up to 31 March 2021.

Consistent with this approval from the shareholders, non-executive directors of the Company are being
paid, in addition to the sitting fee of H 100,000 per meeting for every meeting of the Board and its
Committees, commission at the rate of H 250,000 per meeting of the Board and its Committees attended
by them as member, subject to the overall ceiling of one percent of the net profits.
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Approval of shareholders is being taken at the ensuing annual general meeting for payment of
commission for another five years commencing from 1 April 2021.

In consideration of the services that are being rendered by Rahul Bajaj in his capacity as
Non-executive Chairman, in addition to the commission and sitting fee as may be payable to him
as non-executive director, the following facilities have been extended to him w.e.f. 1 April 2020:



                                                                                                                   35
                     Corporate Governance




                               l   Free furnished residential accommodation, including maintenance with gas, electricity, water and
                                   furnishing.
                               l   Car with driver.
                               l   Reimbursement of medical expenses in India or abroad, including hospitalisation, nursing home
                                   surgical charges and in case of medical treatment abroad, airfare and boarding/lodging expenses
                                   for him and his attendant.

                               Pursuant to regulation 17(6)(ca) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, in case remuneration payable to
                               a single non-executive director exceeds the limit of 50% of the total remuneration payable to all the
                               non-executive directors annually, approval of shareholders is required annually. Therefore, this was
                               taken by way of an enabling provision for the FY2021 through a postal ballot on 16 March 2020.

                               Given the provision and approval mentioned in the paragraph immediately above, Rahul Bajaj is being
                               paid H 4.50 crore as special commission for FY2021. The total remuneration payable to Rahul Bajaj
                               taking into account this special commission would work out to approximately H 6 crore for FY2021.

                               The Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 for the benefit of the
                               permanent employees and/or directors of the Company and/or its holding (if any, in future) and
                               subsidiary company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any employee who is a promoter
                               or belonging to the promoter group.

                               Compensation to the non-executive (including independent) directors reflects the time, effort,
                               attendance and participation of such directors in Board and committee meetings. Payment to them
                               is linked to their attendance.


                               Information supplied to the Board
                               In advance of each meeting, the Board is presented with relevant information on various matters
                               related to the working of the Company, especially such that require deliberation at the highest level.
                               Presentations are also made to the Board by different functional heads on important matters from time
                               to time. Directors have separate and independent access to the officers of the Company. In addition to
                               such items as required to be placed before the Board for its noting and/or approval, information is
                               provided on various other significant items as well.

                               In terms of quality and importance, the information supplied by the management to the Board of the
                               Company is far ahead of the list mandated under regulation 17(7) read with Part A of Schedule II to the
                               SEBI Listing Regulations.

                               The independent directors of the Company at their meeting held on 17 March 2021 have expressed
                               satisfaction on the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s
                               management and the Board and have confirmed that these significantly aid the Board to effectively
                               and reasonably perform its duties.

                               Pursuant to various regulatory requirements and in compliance with applicable laws and keeping in
                               view the business requirements, the Board is, inter alia, apprised on the following:

                               l   Business plans, forecast and strategic initiatives.
                               l   Capital expenditure and updates.
                               l   Internal financial controls.
                               l   Succession planning and organisation structure.
                               l   Details of incidence of frauds and corrective action taken thereon.
                               l   Performance of subsidiaries.
                               l   Status of compliances with Companies Act, 2013, SEBI regulations and shareholder related matters.
                               l   Various policies framed by Company from time to time.
                               l   Risk management system, risk management policy and strategy followed.
                               l   Compliance with corporate governance standards.
                               l   Minutes of meetings of risk management and other Board committees.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               l   Compliance with fair practices code.




                     36
                     Corporate Governance




                               To leverage technology and move towards paperless systems, the Company has, since several years,
                               adopted a web-based application for transmitting Board/Committee meetings papers. The directors of
                               the Company receive Board papers in electronic form through this application. This application meets
                               high standards of security and integrity required for storage and transmission of Board/Committee
                               papers in electronic form.


                               Directors and officers liability insurance (D&O policy)
                               The Company has in place a D&O policy which is renewed every year. It covers directors (including
                               independent directors) of the Company. The Board is of the opinion that the quantum and risks
                               presently covered are adequate.


                               Orderly succession to Board and senior management
                               Pursuant to regulation 17(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the framework of succession planning for the
                               Board and senior management is placed before the Board for its review. During the year under review,
                               the Board of the Company satisfied itself that plans are in place for orderly succession of such appointments.


                               Directorships and memberships of Board committees
                               Details of directorships and memberships in the various committees as held by the directors of the
                               Company are given in Table 2.

                               Table 2: Number of directorships/committee positions of directors
                               as on 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                           Committee positions in listed and
                                                                                Directorships                              unlisted public limited companies
                                                             In equity          In unlisted            In private              As member
                                                               listed          public limited            limited              (including as                 As
                               Name of director             companies           companies             companies                 chairman)                chairman


                               Rahul Bajaj                         2                    -                    8                        -                        -
                               Madhur Bajaj                        5                    -                    4                        -                        -
                               Rajiv Bajaj                         5                    -                    3                        -                        -
                               Sanjiv Bajaj                        5                    5                    9                        7                        -
                               Shekhar Bajaj                       3                    4                    5                        3                        1
                               D J Balaji Rao                      5                    -                    -                        4                        2
                               Niraj Bajaj                         4                    4                   10                        1                        1
                               Dr. Gita Piramal                    4                    -                    2                        7                        3
                               Pradeep Shrivastava                 1                    -                    -                        -                        -
                               Dr. Naushad Forbes                  5                    -                    9                        6                        1
                               Dr. Omkar Goswami                   4                    1                    1                        6                        1
                               Anami N. Roy                        6                    3                    2                        5                        2
                               Rakesh Sharma                       1                    -                    -                        -                        -
                               Ms. Lila Poonawalla                 2                    7                    2                        7                        4
                               Pradip Shah                         7                    2                    6                        7                        3
                               Abhinav Bindra                      1                    -                    7                        -                        -
                               Notes: None of the directors holds office as a director, including as alternate director, in more than 20 companies at the same time. None
                               has directorships in more than 10 public companies. For reckoning the limit of public companies, directorships of private companies that
                               are either holding or subsidiary company of a public company are included and directorships in dormant companies are excluded.
                               For the purpose of considering the limit of the committees in which a director can serve, all public limited companies, whether listed
                               or not, have been included and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under
                               section 8 of the Act, have been excluded. Only audit committees and stakeholders’ relationship committees are considered for the
                               purpose of reckoning committee positions.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               As per declarations received, none of the directors serves as an independent director in more than seven equity listed companies or
                               in more than three equity listed companies in case he or she is a whole-time director in any listed company. Further, the managing
                               director of Bajaj Auto does not serve as an independent director in any equity listed company.




                     38
                                                                                                                        Corporate Governance




None of the directors was a member in more than 10 committees, nor a chairperson in more than five committees across all
companies in which he/she was a director.
Notwithstanding the number of directorships, as has been highlighted herein, the outstanding attendance record and participation of
the directors in Board and committee meetings indicate their commitment and ability to devote adequate time to their responsibilities
as the Company’s fiduciaries.



Directorships held by directors in equity listed companies
Table 3 gives the names of equity listed entities where directors of Bajaj Auto held directorships.

Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
directorships as on 31 March 2021

Name of director              Name of listed entities                                Category



Rahul Bajaj                   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                     Chairman, non-executive

                              b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                                  Non-executive



Madhur Bajaj                  a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                     Vice Chairman, non-executive

                              b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                                  Non-executive

                              c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                                  Non-executive

                              d) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.                  Non-executive

                              e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                              Non-executive



Rajiv Bajaj                   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                     Managing Director and CEO, executive

                              b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                                  Non-executive

                              c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                                  Non-executive

                              d) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.                  Non-executive

                              e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                              Non-executive



Sanjiv Bajaj                  a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                     Non-executive

                              b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                                  Chairman, non-executive

                              c) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                                  Chairman and Managing Director,
                                                                                     executive

                              d) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.                  Managing Director and CEO, executive

                              e) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                           Chairman, non-executive



Shekhar Bajaj                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                     Non-executive

                              b) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                              Chairman and Managing Director,
                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                     executive

                              c) Hercules Hoists Ltd.                                Chairman, non-executive




                                                                                                                                         39
                     Corporate Governance




                               Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
                               directorships as on 31 March 2021 (Contd.)

                               Name of director      Name of listed entities                   Category



                               D J Balaji Rao        a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                                                     b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                   Non-executive, independent

                                                     c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                   Non-executive, independent

                                                     d) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.   Non-executive, independent

                                                     e) John Cockril India Ltd.              Non-executive, independent



                               Niraj Bajaj           a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      Non-executive

                                                     b) Mukand Ltd.                          Chairman and Managing Director,
                                                                                             executive

                                                     c) Mukand Engineers Ltd.                Non-executive

                                                     d) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.   Chairman, non-executive



                               Dr. Gita Piramal      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                                                     b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                   Non-executive, independent

                                                     c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                   Non-executive, independent

                                                     d) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.   Non-executive, independent



                               Pradeep Shrivastava   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      Executive



                               Dr. Naushad Forbes    a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                                                     b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                   Non-executive, independent

                                                     c) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.   Non-executive, independent

                                                     d) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                   Non-executive, independent

                                                     e) Zodiac Clothing Company Ltd.         Non-executive, independent



                               Dr. Omkar Goswami     a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                                                     b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                   Non-executive, independent

                                                     c) Ambuja Cements Ltd.                  Non-executive, independent

                                                     d) Godrej Consumer Products Ltd.        Non-executive, independent
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     40
                     Corporate Governance




                               Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
                               directorships as on 31 March 2021 (Contd.)

                               Name of director        Name of listed entities                        Category



                               Anami N. Roy            a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                                       b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                                       c) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.       Non-executive, independent

                                                       d) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                                       e) Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd.     Non-executive, independent

                                                       f) Finolex Industries Ltd.                  Non-executive, independent



                               Rakesh Sharma           a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Executive



                               Ms. Lila Poonawalla     a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                                       b) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                Non-executive, independent



                               Pradip Shah             a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                                       b) Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd.               Chairman, non-executive, independent

                                                       c) Pfizer Ltd.                              Non-executive, independent

                                                       d) KSB Ltd.                                 Non-executive, independent

                                                       e) BASF India Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                                       f) Sonata Software Ltd.                     Chairman, non-executive, independent

                                                       g) Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd        Non-executive, independent



                               Abhinav Bindra          a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent



                               Certificate from practising Company Secretary
                               The Company has received a certificate from Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company Secretary to
                               the effect that none of the directors on the Board of the Company has been debarred or disqualified
                               from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or
                               any other statutory authority. This certificate forms part of this report.


                               Review of legal compliance reports
                               The Board periodically reviews compliance reports with respect to the various laws applicable to the
                               Company, as prepared and placed before it by the management.


                               Code of conduct
                               Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, requires listed companies to lay down a code of conduct
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               for its directors and senior management, incorporating duties of directors as laid down in the Act.




                     42
                                                                                                 Corporate Governance




The Board at its meeting held on 15 September 2014 adopted a revised code of conduct for all directors
and senior management of the Company which has been placed on the Company’s website
www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

All directors and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the code for FY2021.
A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director and CEO is given in this annual report.


Maximum tenure of independent directors
The maximum tenure of independent directors is in accordance with the Act and regulation 25(2) of the
SEBI Listing Regulations.


Formal letter of appointment to independent directors
The Company issues a formal letter of appointment to independent directors in the manner as provided
in the Act. As per regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the terms and conditions of
appointment of independent directors are available on the Company’s website
www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous


Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees, the
Chairman and the directors
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an
annual performance evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees, Chairman and
individual directors.

The manner in which formal annual evaluation of performance was made by the Board is given below:

l   The Nomination and Remuneration Committee at its meeting held on 15 March 2017, approved the
    revised criteria for such an evaluation. This is available on the website of the Company at
    https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies
l   The Company sent an email which informed directors regarding the automated process to carry out
    annual performance evaluation through an IT platform called ‘HR Craft’.
l   From the individual ratings received from the directors, a report on summary of the ratings in
    respect of performance evaluation of the Board, committees, the Chairman and directors for FY2021
    and a consolidated report thereof were arrived at.
l   This report was then discussed and noted by the Board at its meeting held on 17 March 2021.
l   The nomination and remuneration committee reviewed the implementation and compliance of the
    performance evaluation at its meeting held on 17 March 2021. Based on the report of performance
    evaluation, the Board and nomination and remuneration committee at their meeting held on 17 March 2021,
    determined as required under law that the appointment of independent directors may continue.
l   Details on the evaluation of Board, non-independent directors and Chairperson of the Company
    as carried out by the independent directors at their meeting held on 17 March 2021 have been
    furnished in a separate para elsewhere in this Report.
l   During FY2021, the criteria and the process followed by the Company were reviewed by the
    nomination and remuneration committee and the Board and were found in order.


Remuneration policy
On the recommendation of the nomination and remuneration committee, the Board has framed a
remuneration policy. This policy, inter-alia, provides (a) the criteria for determining qualifications,
positive attributes and independence of directors (b) a policy on remuneration for directors,
key managerial personnel and other employees and (c) details of the employee stock option scheme.
                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




The policy is directed towards a compensation philosophy and structure that will reward and retain
talent and provides for a balance between fixed and incentive pay, reflecting short and long-term
performance objectives appropriate to the working of the Company and its goals. This remuneration
policy is placed on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies




                                                                                                                  43
                     Corporate Governance




                               Board diversity policy
                               In compliance with the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board, through its nomination and remuneration
                               committee, has devised a policy on board diversity. The objective of this policy is to ensure that the
                               Board comprises an adequate number of members with diverse experience and skills, such that it best
                               serves the governance and strategic needs of the Company. The Board composition as at present meets
                               with the above objective.


                               Familiarisation programme
                               To familiarise independent directors with the Company’s operations, as required under regulation 25(7)
                               of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has held various programmes for the independent
                               directors throughout the year on an ongoing and continuous basis. Details of these are placed on
                               www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


                               Whistle blower policy/Vigil mechanism
                               Pursuant to section 177(9) of Act, regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and SEBI (Prohibition of
                               Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019
                               amended the existing whistle blower policy.

                               The whistle blower policy/vigil mechanism provides a route for directors/employees to report, without
                               fear of victimisation, any unethical behaviour, suspected or actual fraud, violation of the Company’s
                               code of conduct and instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information, which are detrimental
                               to the organisation’s interest. The mechanism protects whistle blower from any kind of discrimination,
                               harassment, victimisation or any other unfair employment practice.

                               The policy is placed on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

                               The directors in all cases and employees in appropriate cases have direct access to the chairman of the
                               audit committee. The Company affirms that no employee has been denied access to the audit
                               committee, which is charged with overseeing this policy.

                               During the year, no complaint was received under the above mechanism.


                               Dividend distribution policy
                               The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy. The Board at its meeting held on
                               17 March 2021 amended the existing dividend distribution policy. More particulars are given in the
                               Directors’ Report.


                               Subsidiary companies
                               The Company has three overseas subsidiaries, viz. PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia, Bajaj Auto International
                               Holdings BV, Netherlands and Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd., Thailand. These are not ‘material subsidiaries’
                               as defined under regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.

                               The revised policy on ‘material subsidiaries’ in terms of regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing
                               Regulations as approved by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019 is placed on
                               https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

                               Provisions to the extent applicable and as required under regulation 24 of the SEBI Listing Regulations
                               with reference to subsidiary companies were duly complied with.

                               During the year, the audit committee reviewed the financial statements (in particular, the investments
                               made) of its unlisted subsidiary companies, to the extent applicable. Minutes of the Board meetings of
                               the subsidiary companies as well as a statement of significant transactions and arrangements entered
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               into by the subsidiaries, as applicable, were regularly placed before the Board of the Company.




                     44
                     Corporate Governance




                               Related party transactions
                               All related party transactions (RPTs) which were entered into by the Company during the year under review,
                               were on arms’ length basis and in the ordinary course of business, did not attract provisions of section 188
                               of the Act and were also not material RPTs as per regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.

                               All RPTs during FY2021 were entered into with the approval of the audit committee. On a quarterly
                               basis, details of such transactions were placed before the audit committee for noting/review.

                               A statement showing the disclosure of transactions with related parties as required under Indian
                               Accounting Standard 24 (Ind-AS 24) is set out separately in this Annual Report. Disclosures relating to
                               related party transactions on a half-yearly basis are filed with the stock exchanges. There were no
                               material transactions entered into with related parties, during the period under review, which may have
                               had any potential conflict with the interests of the Company.

                               The revised policy on materiality of RPTs stipulating threshold limits and also on dealing with
                               RPTs which was approved by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, pursuant to SEBI Listing
                               Regulations, has been placed on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


                               Disclosures
                               Suitable disclosures have been made in the financial statements, together with the management’s
                               explanation in the event of any treatment being different from that prescribed in the Ind-AS.


                               Core skills/Expertise/Competencies
                               As stipulated under Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, core skills/expertise/competencies,
                               as required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively and those actually
                               available with the Board have been identified by the Board of directors.

                               As a green initiative, the Chart/matrix of such core skills/expertise/competence along with the names
                               of directors who possess such skills has been placed on the Company’s website
                               https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

                               Audit Committee
                               The Company has constituted an audit committee. The Board reviews the working of the Committee
                               from time to time to bring about greater effectiveness in order to comply with the various requirements
                               under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.

                               In compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, all members of the audit
                               committee are independent, non–executive directors, are financially literate and have accounting or
                               related financial management expertise.

                               Pursuant to provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, the terms of reference of the
                               committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019. The revised terms of
                               reference are in accordance with the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. These are on the Company’s
                               website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


                               Meetings and attendance
                               During FY2021, the audit committee met four times: 20 May 2020, 22 July 2020, 22 October 2020 and
                               21 January 2021. These meetings were scheduled well in advance and not more than one hundred and
                               twenty days elapsed between any two such meetings.

                               In addition to members of the audit committee, these meetings were attended by the heads of finance
                               and internal audit functions and the statutory auditor of the Company and such executives who were
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               considered necessary for providing inputs to the committee.

                               The company secretary acted as the secretary to the audit committee.



                     46
                                                                                              Corporate Governance




Table 4: Composition of the audit committee and attendance of members for FY2021

Name of director               Category                                    No. of meetings attended



Anami N. Roy                   Chairman, non-executive, independent                     4/4
D J Balaji Rao                 Non-executive, independent                               4/4
Dr. Gita Piramal               Non-executive, independent                               4/4
Dr. Naushad Forbes             Non-executive, independent                               3/4

The audit committee, inter alia, discussed and deliberated on the financial results, appointment/
re-appointment of statutory auditors, review of internal audit functions, review and approval of RPTs
including granting of omnibus approval for the proposed transactions, review of investment related
reports of the Company, utilisation of loans and/or advances from/investment by the Company in
subsidiaries, etc.

Anami N. Roy, chairman of the audit committee, was present at the Company’s annual general meeting
held on 22 July 2020.


Nomination and remuneration committee
The Company has constituted a nomination and remuneration committee. Its terms of reference were
revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019. The committee also acts as a compensation
committee for implementation of the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019.

The detailed terms of reference of the committee have been placed on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

During FY2021, the Committee met three times: 20 May 2020, 22 October 2020 and 17 March 2021.

Table 5: Composition of nomination and remuneration committee and attendance
of its members for FY2021

Name of director               Category                                    No. of meetings attended



D J Balaji Rao                 Chairman, non-executive, independent                     3/3
Rahul Bajaj                    Non-executive, non-independent                           2/3
Dr. Naushad Forbes             Non-executive, independent                               3/3
Dr. Gita Piramal               Non-executive, independent                               3/3

The company secretary acted as the secretary to this committee.

As provided under the terms of reference of the nomination and remuneration committee, the
members, inter alia, deliberated on the following:

i)    Appointment of Abhinav Bindra as additional and independent director.
ii)   Re-appointment of Madhur Bajaj as Vice Chairman and extension of facilities.
iii)  Recommendation of remuneration payable to senior management.
iv)   Approval of revision in the remuneration payable to executive directors.
v)    Approval of revision in the remuneration payable to the Managing Director and CEO.
vi)   Approval for second tranche of grant of stock options under Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
                                                                                                                     14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




      Scheme 2019.
vii) Review the implementation and compliance of performance evaluation of the Board, its
      committees, the Chairman and individual directors.
viii) Review the performance evaluation criteria and the process followed.
ix) Consider revision in the remuneration payable to senior management (the Chief Financial Officer
      and the Chief Human Resources Officer) effective from 1 October 2020.



                                                                                                               47
                     Corporate Governance




                               x) Note of Bajaj Auto Ltd. featuring in the list of Forbes World’s Best Employers 2020.
                               xi) Re-appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava as Whole-time Director.
                               xii) Recommend for payment of special commission to Rahul Bajaj as non-executive director and
                                    Chairman for FY2021.

                               D J Balaji Rao, chairman of the nomination and remuneration committee, was present at the annual
                               general meeting of the Company held on 22 July 2020.


                               Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
                               (BAL-ESOS 2019)
                               BAL-ESOS 2019 has been formulated by the nomination and remuneration committee of the Board to
                               provide competitive remuneration opportunities to employees of the Company, through annual and long
                               term incentive plans. It was approved by the Board at its meeting held on 30 January 2019 and by
                               members of the Company by a special resolution through postal ballot on 13 March 2019.

                               Risk management committee
                               The Company has a risk management committee, the composition of which is given in Table 6 below.
                               The terms of reference of this committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March
                               2019 and these inter alia include: (i) to manage the integrated risk, (ii) to lay down procedures to inform
                               the Board about risk assessment and minimisation procedures in the Company, (iii) to frame,
                               implement and monitor the risk management plan for the Company and (iv) to perform such other
                               functions as the Board may deem necessary including cyber security etc.

                               The Company has a Board-approved risk management framework. The committee and the Board
                               periodically review the company’s risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that
                               management identifies and controls risk through a properly defined framework.

                               In the year, the Company neither traded in nor had any exposure in commodities markets.

                               During FY2021, the committee met three times: 20 May 2020, 22 October 2020 and 17 March 2021.
                               The frequency of the meetings has been increased to have a closer oversight of the risk management
                               practices.

                               Table 6: Composition of Risk Management Committee and attendance record of
                               its members for FY2021

                               Name of director                Category                                       No. of meetings attended



                               Anami N. Roy                    Chairman, non-executive, independent                      3/3
                               D J Balaji Rao                  Non-executive, independent                                3/3
                               Soumen Ray                      Chief Financial Officer                                   3/3



                               Stakeholders’ relationship committee
                               The Company has a stakeholders’ relationship committee to specifically oversee shareholders’ and
                               investors’ complaints on matters relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of annual report,
                               non-receipt of dividend, payment of unclaimed dividends etc. The terms of reference of the committee
                               were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019. These have been placed on the
                               Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies.

                               During FY2021, the committee met on 21 January 2021 to review the status of investors’ services
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               rendered. At the meeting, the committee also discussed on matters that can facilitate better investor
                               services and relations. The Board was apprised of all the major developments on investors’ issues
                               through various reports and statements furnished to the Board from time to time throughout the year.



                     48
                     Corporate Governance




                               Table 7: Composition of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and attendance
                               record of members for FY2021
                                                                                                              Attendance at the meeting
                               Name of director                 Category                                      held on 21 January 2021



                               D J Balaji Rao                   Chairman, non-executive, independent                       Yes
                               Dr. Gita Piramal                 Non-executive, independent                                 Yes
                               Dr. Omkar Goswami                Non-executive, independent                                 Yes


                               The company secretary acts as the compliance officer and as the secretary to the committee.
                               The secretarial auditor was also present at the meeting.

                               The committee expressed its satisfaction on the overall status of compliance and actions taken on
                               various investor-related matters.

                               D J Balaji Rao, chairman of the stakeholders’ relationship committee, was present at the annual general
                               meeting of the Company held on 22 July 2020.

                               Table 8: Investors’ complaints attended and resolved during FY2021

                               Investors’ complaints                                                   Attended/resolved during the year



                               Pending at the beginning of the year                                                    –
                               Received during the year                                                                8
                               Disposed of during the year                                                             8
                               Pending at the end of the year                                                          –


                               Pursuant to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations for dealing with physical unclaimed shares,
                               the Company has a demat account with HDFC Bank, titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd. - Unclaimed Suspense
                               Account’, to which all the unclaimed shares stand transferred. Details on this subject and on
                               shareholders’ related matters have been furnished in the chapter on General Shareholder Information.

                               Duplicate share certificate issuance committee
                               To meet the requirement of section 46 of the Act, read with rule 6 of the Companies (Share Capital and
                               Debentures) Rules, 2014 and regulation 39 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board at its meeting
                               held on 4 February 2016, constituted a duplicate share certificate issuance committee to approve
                               issuing of duplicate share certificate in lieu of original share certificate(s) that were lost or misplaced.

                               Table 9: Composition of the duplicate share certificate issuance committee and
                               attendance record of its members for FY2021

                                                                                                                Attendance at the meeting
                               Name of director                 Category                                         held on 21 January 2021



                               Rahul Bajaj                      Chairman, non-executive                                    Yes
                               Rajiv Bajaj                      Managing Director and CEO, executive                       Yes
                               Sanjiv Bajaj                     Non-executive                                              Yes
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     50
                                                                                                  Corporate Governance




During the year, the Board, at its meeting held on 17 March 2021, re-constituted the committee
as given below:
Name of director               Category



Rajiv Bajaj                    Managing Director and CEO, executive
Pradeep Shrivastava            Whole-time Director, executive
Rakesh Sharma                  Whole-time Director, executive



Independent directors’ meeting
In compliance with Schedule IV to the Act and regulation 25(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the
independent directors held their separate meeting on 17 March 2021, without the attendance of
non-independent directors and members of management, to discuss the following:

i)   Noting of the report of performance evaluation of Board and its committees for 2020-21, from the
     Chairman of the Board.
ii) Review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a whole.
iii) Review the performance of the Chairman of the Company, taking into account the views of executive
     directors and non-executive directors.
iv) Assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s
     management and the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform
     their duties.
v) Noting and review of the informal meeting with senior management.

All independent directors were present at the meeting.

The independent directors present elected Anami N. Roy as Chairman for the meeting, deliberated on
the above and expressed their satisfaction on each of the above matters.

In addition, the independent directors had separate meetings with senior management regarding its
views pertaining to the business and functions.

Remuneration of directors
Pecuniary relationship/transaction with non-executive directors
During the year, there was no pecuniary relationship or transaction with any non-executive director of
the Company, apart from their remuneration as directors.

The register of contracts is maintained by the Company pursuant to section 189 of the Act. This is
signed by all the directors present at respective Board meetings.


Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors
As stated earlier, the remuneration policy disclosing the criteria of making payments to directors,
key managerial personnel and employees is placed on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


Non-executive directors
As stated earlier in this report, non-executive directors are paid sitting fees and commission;
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




and special commission was approved for the non-executive Chairman for FY2021.


Executive directors
During the year, the Company paid remuneration to Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO and
Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, executive directors of the Company as provided in
detail in Form MGT-7, i.e. the annual return. The same can be accessed at
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports
                                                                                                                   51
                     Corporate Governance




                               Executive directors are entitled to superannuation benefits payable in the form of an annuity from an
                               approved life insurance company, which form part of the perquisites allowed to them. No pension is
                               paid by the Company.


                               Details of remuneration to directors
                               As stated elsewhere in this report, the Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
                               Scheme 2019 for the benefit of the permanent employees and/or directors of the Company and/or its
                               holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary Company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any
                               employee who is a promoter or belongs to the promoter group.

                               During the year, none of the directors was paid any performance-linked incentive, apart from
                               Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, who are executive directors.

                               In FY2021, the Company did not advance any loans to any of the non-executive directors and/or the
                               managing director. Details of remuneration paid/payable to non-executive directors for the year are
                               provided in Form MGT-7, i.e. the annual return, which is available on the website of the Company at
                               https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

                               Management
                               Management discussion and analysis
                               This is given as separate chapter in the Annual Report.


                               Disclosure of material transactions
                               Pursuant to regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, senior management has made periodical
                               disclosures to the Board relating to all material financial and commercial transactions, where they had
                               (or were deemed to have had) personal interest that might have been in potential conflict with the
                               interest of the Company. There was only one case involving a member of the senior management.
                               In this instance, the disclosure was discussed, reviewed and found in order by the Board.


                               Compliances regarding insider trading
                               Pursuant to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, (‘SEBI PIT Regulations’) the
                               Company had a Board-approved code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by insiders;
                               and a code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive Information.

                               The SEBI PIT Regulations were amended. Consequentially, the Board of directors, at its meeting held on
                               13 March 2019, approved the following, with effect from 1 April 2019:

                               a. Revised code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by designated persons.
                               b. Revised code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive
                                  information.
                               c. Revised whistle blower policy.
                               d. Institutional mechanism for prevention of insider trading.
                               e. Amendment to the terms of reference of the audit committee.
                               f. List of designated persons for the code of conduct mentioned above.

                               During the year, the Board revised the code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by
                               Insiders in line with the amended SEBI PIT Regulations. Where non-compliance by the employees
                               concerned was observed, penalty was levied and the amount was remitted to the specified Fund.

                               By frequent communication, the Company makes designated employees conversant of the obligations
                               under the insider trading regulations.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               The status of compliance with SEBI PIT Regulations is also reviewed by audit committee and Board.




                     52
                     Corporate Governance




                               Means of communication
                               Quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results and other public notices issued for the shareholders
                               are published in numerous leading dailies, such as Financial Express, Business Standard, Kesari, Mint
                               and Hindu Business Line. An official press release is also issued.

                               The Company also sends its half-yearly financial results along with a detailed write-up to shareholders.

                               The Company website, www.bajajauto.com, contains all important public domain information including
                               presentations, if any, made to the media, analysts and institutional investors. It contains information as
                               prescribed under the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations including details of the corporate contact
                               persons and share transfer agent of the Company, shareholding pattern etc.

                               Section 20 and 136 of the Act, read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 permit companies to service
                               delivery of documents electronically at the registered members’/shareholders’ email addresses.

                               During the year under review, the Company sent documents, such as notice calling the general meeting,
                               audited financial statements, directors’ report, auditors’ report, credit of dividend intimation letters, etc.
                               in electronic form at the email addresses provided by the shareholders and made available by them to
                               the Company through the depositories. Shareholders desiring to receive the said documents in physical
                               form continued to get these physically upon request.

                               All financial and other vital official news releases and documents under the SEBI Listing Regulations are
                               also communicated to the concerned stock exchanges, besides being placed on the Company’s website.


                               Information on general body meetings and special resolution(s) passed
                               During the previous three years, the annual general meetings (AGM) of the Company were held at the
                               registered office at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 on the following dates and time. In these,
                               the following special resolutions were passed:

                               Details of AGM Date and time of AGM           Details of special resolution(s) passed at the AGM, if any



                               11th AGM         20 July 2018 at 12.15 p.m.                                  Nil
                               12th AGM         26 July 2019 at 12.15 p.m.   1. Approval of appointment of Rakesh Sharma as a
                                                                                Whole-time Director, with the designation as
                                                                                Executive Director
                                                                             2. Appointment of Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla as an
                                                                                Independent Director of the Company for a term of five
                                                                                consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019
                                                                                (age over 75 years)
                                                                             3. Re-appointment of Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani as an
                                                                                Independent Director of the Company for a second term of
                                                                                five consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019
                                                                             4. Re-appointment of Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton as an
                                                                                Independent Director of the Company for a second term of
                                                                                five consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019
                                                                             5. Maintaining the number of maximum directors
                                                                                of the Company
                               13th AGM         22 July 2020 at 12.15 p.m.   1. Re-appointment of Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj as
                               (e-AGM)                                          Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the
                                                                                Company for a period of five years with effect from
                                                                                1 April 2020
                                                                             2. Re-appointment of Dr. Gita Piramal as an Independent
                                                                                Director of the Company for a second term of five consecutive
                                                                                years with effect from 1 April 2020
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                               All resolutions proposed by the Board have been passed with requisite majority by the shareholders.




                     54
                                                                                                  Corporate Governance




Postal ballot
No resolution of shareholders was passed through postal ballot during the year under review.

Details of capital market non-compliance, if any
There was no non-compliance of any legal requirements; nor has there been any penalty or stricture
imposed on the Company by any stock exchange, SEBI or any statutory authority on any matter related
to capital markets during the last three years.

Disclosure under Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013
This disclosure is given in the Directors’ Report.

Compliance certificate
The Managing Director and CEO and the CFO have certified to the Board regarding the financial
statements and other such matters as required under regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II
to the SEBI Listing Regulations.

Report on corporate governance
This chapter, read together with the information given in the Directors’ Report and the chapters on
Management Discussion and Analysis and General Shareholder Information, constitute the compliance
report on corporate governance during FY2021. The Company has been regularly forwarding the
quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges as required under regulation 27(2) of the SEBI
Listing Regulations.

Statutory auditors
S R B C & CO LLP are the statutory auditors of the Company. Total fees paid by the Company and its
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis to the auditors including all entities in their network firm/entity of
which they are a part is given below:
                                                                                                   (H In Crore)

                                                                              Statutory          Other
Sr. No.   Particulars                                                         Audit Fee         Services



   1      Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                                              1.80              1.85
   2      PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                                         -                   -
   3      Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV                                             -                   -
   4      Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                                   0.03                    -
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                   55
                     Corporate Governance




                               Auditors’ certificate on corporate governance
                               The Company has obtained the certificate from its statutory auditors regarding compliance with the
                               provisions relating to corporate governance laid down in Part E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing
                               Regulations. This is annexed to the Directors’ Report and will be sent to the stock exchanges, along with
                               the Annual Report to be filed by the Company.

                               Compliance of mandatory and discretionary
                               requirements
                               Mandatory
                               The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations.


                               Discretionary
                               The Company has also complied with the discretionary requirements as under:


                               1. The Board
                                   A Chairman’s office has been made available for the non-executive Chairman. He is allowed
                                   reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties.


                               2. Shareholder rights
                                   A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of significant events in the
                                   preceding six months is sent to each household of shareholders.


                               3. Modified opinion(s) in audit report
                                   The Company confirms that its financial statements are with unmodified audit opinion.


                               4. Reporting of the Internal Auditor
                                   The internal auditor reports directly to the audit committee.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     56
GENERAL
SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION
14th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Date                              22 July 2021
Time                              12.15 p.m.
Venue/Mode                        The Company is conducting meeting through video conferencing (VC)/other
                                  audio-visual means (OAVM) pursuant to Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA)
                                  and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) circulars. For details,
                                  please refer to the Notice of AGM.
Financial Year                    1 April to 31 March


MCA vide its circulars dated 8 April 2020, 13 April 2020, 5 May 2020 and 13 January 2021 read with
SEBI circulars dated 12 May 2020 and 15 January 2021 has provided an option for Companies to
conduct AGM through ‘VC or OAVM’ and send financial statements (including Board’s Report, Auditors
Report and other documents to be attached therewith) through email.

Accordingly, as in the previous year, the annual report of the Company for the year 2020-21 along with
the notice of AGM are being sent by email to the members and all other persons/entities entitled to
receive the same and the 14th AGM will be convened through VC or OAVM. The Company has also made
arrangements for those shareholders who have not yet registered their email address to get the same
registered by following the procedure prescribed in the notice of AGM.

Financial calendar
Approval of audited annual results for year ending 31 March                       April/May
Mailing of annual reports                                                         June
Annual general meeting                                                            July
Unaudited first quarter financial results                                         July
Unaudited second quarter financial results                                        October
Unaudited third quarter financial results                                         January



Share transfer agent
The Company appointed Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd., as its registrar and share transfer agent.
Accordingly, processing of share transfer/dematerialisation/rematerialisation and allied activities were
outsourced to it with effect from 10 July 2008.

All operations of Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd. were transferred to Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. with effect
from 17 November 2018. Further, the name of Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. was changed to KFin
Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (KFin) with effect from 5 December 2019. All share registry services are now
handled by KFin.
                                                                                                                       14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




All physical transfers (to the extent permitted), transmission, transposition, issue of duplicate share
certificate(s), issue of demand drafts in lieu of dividend warrants, etc. as well as requests for
dematerialisation/rematerialisation are being processed in periodical cycles at KFin. Work related to
dematerialisation/rematerialisation is handled by KFin through connectivity with National Securities
Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL).



                                                                                                                  57
                     General Shareholder Information




                                Dates of book closure
                                The register of members and share transfer books of the Company will remain closed from Saturday,
                                10 July 2021 to Thursday, 22 July 2021 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of payment of dividend.

                                Dividend and date of dividend payment
                                The Board of directors has proposed a dividend of H140 per equity share (1400%) of the face value of
                                H 10 for the financial year 2020-21, subject to approval of members at the ensuing AGM as against
                                H 120 per equity share (1200%) for the previous year.

                                Dividend on equity shares, if declared, at the AGM, will be credited/dispatched between
                                Monday, 26 July 2021 and/or Tuesday, 27 July 2021, as under:
                                a) to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided to the
                                    Company by the share transfer agent of the Company i.e. KFin, as of closing hours on
                                    Friday, 9 July 2021; and
                                b) to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form as per beneficial ownership details
                                    provided to the Company by NSDL and CDSL, as of the closing hours of the day on
                                    Friday, 9 July 2021

                                Payment of dividend
                                SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the SEBI Listing Regulations,
                                2015) read with SEBI circular dated 20 April 2018, require companies to use any electronic mode of
                                payment approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment to shareholders. Accordingly,
                                the dividend, if declared, will be paid through electronic mode, where the bank account details of
                                members are available. Where dividend payments are made through electronic mode, intimation
                                regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the shareholders.

                                In cases where the dividend cannot be paid through electronic mode, it will be paid by account payee
                                non-negotiable instruments/warrants with bank account details printed thereon. In case of non-availability
                                of bank account details, address of the members will be printed on such payment instruments.

                                Pursuant to the circular mentioned above, the Company has written to shareholders holding shares in
                                physical form requesting them to furnish details regarding their PAN and also their bank details for
                                payment of dividend through electronic mode. Those shareholders who are yet to respond to the
                                Company’s appeal in this regard are again requested to take action on this matter at the earliest.

                                To enable payment of dividend through electronic mode, members holding shares in physical form are
                                requested to furnish, on or before Friday, 9 July 2021, updated particulars of their bank accounts to KFin
                                along with a photocopy of a cancelled cheque of the bank account and self-attested copy of PAN card.

                                Beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form are requested to furnish their bank account details
                                to their respective depository participants and ensure that such changes are recorded by them
                                correctly before Friday, 9 July 2021. The request to update particulars of bank account should be
                                signed as per the specimen signature registered with KFin/depository participants, as the case may be.

                                Tax deducted at source on dividend
                                As per the amended Income Tax Act, 1961, hereafter there will be no dividend distribution tax payable
                                by the Company. The dividend, if declared, will be taxable in the hands of the shareholders subject to
                                tax deduction at source at the applicable rates. For details, shareholders are requested to refer to the
                                Notice of Annual General Meeting.

                                Unclaimed dividends
                                As per section 124(5) of Companies Act, 2013, any money transferred by the Company to the unpaid
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                dividend account and remaining unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of such transfer
                                shall be transferred to a fund called the Investor Education and Protection Fund (the Fund) set up by the
                                Central Government.



                     58
                                                                                      General Shareholder Information




Accordingly, unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial years 2007-08 to 2012-13 has been already
transferred by the Company to this said Fund from September 2015 onwards.

Unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial year 2013-14 shall be due for transfer to the Fund in
August 2021. Members are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, for the
financial year 2013-14, before such amount becomes due for transfer. Communications are being sent
to the members, who have not yet claimed dividend for the financial year 2013-14, requesting them to
claim the same as well as unpaid dividend, if any, for subsequent years.

As a measure to reduce the unclaimed dividend, efforts are being made on an ongoing basis to reach
out to shareholders requesting them to submit necessary documents to enable them to claim their
unpaid or unclaimed dividend.

The following are the details of unclaimed dividends which are due to be transferred to the Fund in the
coming years including current year. Once again, members who have not claimed the dividends till date
are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, before the same becomes due for
transfer as per the table given below:

                                       Date of Declaration    Last date for
Year            Dividend Type          AGM Date               claiming dividend     Due date for transfer



2013-2014       Final                  17 July 2014           14 August 2021        14 September 2021
2014-2015       Final                  23 July 2015           21 August 2022        20 September 2022
2015-2016       Interim                23 March 2016          22 April 2023         21 May 2023
2015-2016       Final                  27 July 2016           25 August 2023        24 September 2023
2016-2017       Final                  20 July 2017           18 August 2024        17 September 2024
2017-2018       Final                  20 July 2018           18 August 2025        17 September 2025
2018-2019       Final                  26 July 2019           24 August 2026        23 September 2026
                Interim
2019-2020       (Confirmed as Final)   9 March 2020           7 April 2027          6 May 2027


The Company has uploaded details of unclaimed dividend on its website at www.bajajauto.com and also
on website specified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/service

Transfer of shares to IEPF
Pursuant to section 124(6) of Companies Act, 2013 and the Investor Education and Protection Fund
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended (the IEPF Rules), all shares
in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or more shall be
transferred by the Company to the IEPF, within 30 days of such shares becoming due for transfer.

Accordingly, the Company will send individual letters through ordinary/speed post and email to such
shareholders, whose dividend from the year 2013-14 has remained unclaimed, requesting them to
claim the amount of unpaid dividend on or before the date on which Company must transfer the related
shares to the demat account of IEPF. The Company also publishes, on an annual basis, a notice in the
newspapers intimating the members regarding the said transfer. These details are also be made
available on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

During the year under review, the Company transferred 6,422 (previous year: 109,499) equity shares of
the face value of H10 each relating to 22 shareholders (previous year: 68) to the demat Account of the
IEPF Authority held with NSDL/CDSL. Details of such shareholders, whose shares are transferred to
                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




IEPF and their unpaid dividends for subsequent years are available on the website of the Company at
www.bajajauto.com

Shareholders can claim such unpaid dividends and underlying shares transferred to the Fund by
following the procedure prescribed in the IEPF Rules. A link to the procedure to claim is available on the
Company’s website at www.bajajauto.com



                                                                                                                  59
                     General Shareholder Information




                                Shareholders are requested to get in touch with the compliance officer for further details on the subject
                                at investors@bajajauto.co.in

                                Share transfer system
                                SEBI’s amended regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, prohibits the transfer of securities
                                (except transmission or transposition of shares) in physical form from 1 April 2019. Accordingly,
                                the Company has sent letters to members holding shares in physical form advising them to
                                dematerialise their holdings. During FY2021, no shares were transferred in the physical form except
                                for those for whom the transfer deed was lodged prior to 1 April 2019 and were returned due to
                                deficiencies in the document and thus re-lodged after 1 April 2019.

                                Further, SEBI through its circular dated 7 September 2020 has fixed 31 March 2021 as the cut-off date
                                for re-lodging of transfer deeds (including request for transfer(s) pending with Company or its share
                                transfer agent as on 7 September 2020). It has also stated that such transferred shares shall be issued
                                only in demat mode. Moreover, SEBI vide its circular dated 2 December 2020 has provided operational
                                guidelines for the transfer and de-materialisation of re-lodged physical shares.

                                Share transfers received by the share transfer agent/Company are registered within 15 days from the
                                date of receipt, provided the documents are complete in all respects. The total number of shares
                                transferred in the physical category during 2020-21 was 55,436 shares versus 73,029 shares during
                                2019-20. Such details were placed before the Board on a quarterly basis.

                                Investor grievances redressal mechanism
                                SEBI has issued a circular, SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2020/152 dated 13 August 2020, laying down
                                the mechanism for redressal of investor complaints by companies and stock exchanges effective from
                                1 September 2020. This outlines the procedure for handling complaints by stock exchanges as well as
                                standard operating procedure for actions to be taken against listed companies for failure to redress
                                investor grievances.

                                An investor can raise complaints on non-receipt of bonus shares, of dividend, of duplicate share
                                certificate and delays in dematerialisation/rematerialisation etc. Complaints pertaining to deposits and
                                IEPF matters are not governed by this circular.

                                Dematerialisation/Rematerialisation of shares
                                During 2020-21, 51,350 shares were dematerialised versus 385,827 shares in 2019-20. No shares were
                                rematerialised during 2020-21 versus 75 shares in 2019-20. Shares held in physical and electronic
                                mode as on 31 March 2021 are in Table 1.

                                Table 1: Shares held in physical and electronic mode

                                                       Position as on 31 March 2021      Position as on 31 March 2020          Net change during 2020-21
                                                                            % to total                         % to total                          % to total
                                Particulars             No. of shares    shareholding    No. of shares      shareholding       No. of shares    shareholding



                                Physical                  17,011,759              5.88     17,069,413                   5.90        (57,654)           (0.02)
                                Demat
                                NSDL                     265,281,149             91.68    265,787,712               91.85          (506,563)           (0.17)
                                CDSL                        7,074,112             2.44       6,509,895                  2.25        564,217                0.19
                                Sub-total                272,355,261             94.12    272,297,607               94.10            57,654                0.02
                                Total                    289,367,020           100.00     289,367,020             100.00                  –                  –
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     60
                     General Shareholder Information




                                Stock code
                                1. BSE Ltd., Mumbai                                                                   532977
                                2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.                                              BAJAJ-AUTO
                                3. ISIN for depositories (NSDL and CDSL)                                              INE917I01010
                                4. Bloomberg                                                                          BJAUT.IN
                                5. Reuters                                                                            BAJA.BO


                                Listing on stock exchanges
                                Shares of the Company are currently listed on the following stock exchanges:

                                Name                                                Address



                                1. BSE Ltd. (BSE)                                   1st Floor, New Trading Ring Rotunda Building,
                                                                                    P J Tower, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001.
                                2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)      Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor Plot No.C-1, G Block
                                                                                    Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051.

                                Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company has entered into a uniform Listing
                                Agreement with BSE and NSE. For FY2021, the listing fees payable to these stock exchanges have been
                                paid in full.

                                Market price data
                                Table 2: Monthly highs and lows of Company’s shares in FY2021
                                (K vis-à-vis BSE Sensex)

                                                                    BSE                           NSE
                                Month                            High            Low           High            Low    Closing BSE Sensex



                                Apr-20                       2,653.75        1,959.00      2,654.00        1,957.55                  33,717.62
                                May-20                       2,766.70        2,363.25      2,774.00        2,361.30                  32,424.10
                                Jun-20                       2,978.05        2,580.15      2,979.90        2,610.25                  34,915.80
                                Jul-20                       3,149.75        2,793.20      3,149.00        2,811.60                  37,606.89
                                Aug-20                       3,158.75        2,911.00      3,159.00        2,910.00                  38,628.29
                                Sep-20                       3,069.00        2,831.40      3,070.00        2,830.05                  38,067.93
                                Oct-20                       3,130.60        2,855.00      3,130.00        2,853.05                  39,614.07
                                Nov-20                       3,249.75        2,823.35      3,249.00        2,822.45                  44,149.72
                                Dec-20                       3,472.35        3,164.10      3,472.85        3,161.00                  47,751.33
                                Jan-21                       4,237.20        3,412.30      4,236.65        3,428.25                  46,285.77
                                Feb-21                       4,361.20        3,778.00      4,361.40        3,773.05                  49,099.99
                                Mar-21                       3,973.20        3,496.90      3,985.00        3,497.00                  49,509.15
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     62
                                                                                                                               General Shareholder Information




             Bajaj Auto Ltd. stock performance vs BSE Sensex, during 2020-21,
                               indexed to 100 on 31 March 2020

         220

         200

         180
         160
Price




         140

         120

         100

            80

            60

            40
                 Apr 20


                          May 20


                                   Jun 20


                                               Jul 20


                                                        Aug 20


                                                                    Sep 20


                                                                              Oct 20


                                                                                          Nov 20


                                                                                                          Dec 20


                                                                                                                      Jan 21


                                                                                                                                 Feb 21


                                                                                                                                          Mar 21
                                                   31 March 2020 to 31 March 2021
                                            BSE Sensex                                 Bajaj Auto Share Price



Distribution of shareholding
Table 3 gives details about the pattern of shareholding across various categories as on 31 March 2021,
while Table 4 gives the data according to size classes.

Table 3: Distribution of shareholdings across categories
                                                                 31 March 2021                                           31 March 2020
                                                                                        % to total                                        % to total
Categories                                                No. of shares                   capital                  No. of shares            capital



Promoters                                                    155,389,904                      53.70                 155,263,104                     53.66
Friends and associates of promoters                              22,348,700                        7.73              22,607,209                      7.81
FPIs/FIIs                                                        34,701,018                   11.99                  40,323,573                     13.94
Public Financial Institutions                                    25,638,567                        8.86              16,259,825                      5.62
Mutual Funds                                                      9,852,302                        3.40               8,817,622                      3.05
Nationalised and other banks                                        67,109                         0.02                  287,213                     0.10
NRIs and OCBs                                                     1,304,665                        0.45               1,455,020                      0.50
Others                                                           40,064,755                   13.85                  44,353,454                     15.32
Total                                                      289,367,020                     100.00                  289,367,020                     100.00
                                                                                                                                                                 14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                                            63
                     General Shareholder Information




                                Table 4: Distribution of shareholding according to size class as on 31 March 2021
                                                                              No. of shareholders            Shares held in each class
                                Category                                          Number                %        Number                  %



                                1 to 500                                          154,956            95.79      4,920,186           1.70
                                501 to 1000                                         2,335             1.44      1,723,774           0.60
                                1001 to 2000                                        1,444             0.89      2,105,340           0.73
                                2001 to 3000                                          679             0.42      1,689,981           0.58
                                3001 to 4000                                          383             0.24      1,344,412           0.46
                                4001 to 5000                                          309             0.19      1,409,681           0.49
                                5001 to 10000                                         637             0.39      4,562,816           1.58
                                10001 and above                                     1,032             0.64   271,610,830           93.86
                                Total                                            161,775            100.00   289,367,020         100.00



                                Shareholders’ and investors’ grievances
                                The Board of directors of the Company has a stakeholders’ relationship committee to specifically look
                                into and resolve grievances of security-holders on various matters.

                                Routine queries/complaints received from shareholders are promptly attended to and replied.
                                Queries/complaints received during FY2021 were relating to non-receipt of dividend by warrants as
                                well as through electronic clearing service, non-receipt of annual report and change of address and/or
                                bank particulars. As on 31 March 2021, there was no pending issue to be addressed or resolved.

                                During the year, letters were received from SEBI/the Registrar of Companies (ROC)/Stock Exchanges/
                                Investors, concerning eight complaints filed by the shareholders on various matters. For each of these
                                complaints, replies were sent to SEBI/ROC/Stock Exchanges/Investors in the prescribed format;
                                no action remained to be taken on the Company’s side at the year end.

                                Green initiative
                                The Company believes in driving environmental initiatives. As a step in this direction, it availed of
                                special services offered by NSDL/CDSL to update email addresses of shareholders holding shares with
                                depository participant registered with these entities and who have not registered their email addresses.
                                This will enable such shareholders to immediately receive various email communication from the
                                Company from time to time including the annual report, dividend credit intimation, half-yearly
                                communication etc. Shareholders who have not updated their email, are requested to do so by sending
                                a request to the Company/KFin or their respective depository participant.

                                KPRISM: a mobile service application by KFin
                                Members should note that our registrar and share transfer agent, KFin, has launched a new mobile app
                                KPRISM and a website https://kprism.kfintech.com/ for our investors. Members can download the
                                mobile app and see their portfolios serviced by KFin; check their dividend status; request for annual
                                reports; register change of address; register change in the bank account or update the bank mandate;
                                and download the standard forms. This android mobile application can be downloaded from the
                                Play Store.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     64
                                                                                       General Shareholder Information




Demat suspense account with HDFC Bank for
unclaimed shares
In accordance with the provisions contained in clause 5A of the erstwhile Listing Agreement
(corresponding to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015) as amended by SEBI through
its circular dated 16 December 2010, the Company, during 2011-12, had sent three reminders to such
shareholders whose shares were lying ‘undelivered/unclaimed’ with the Company; and then followed it
by opening of the unclaimed share suspense demat account titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd. – Unclaimed
Suspense Account’ with the HDFC Bank in April 2012.

After completing the necessary formalities, 44,375 shares held by 148 shareholders were transferred
to this suspense account in April 2012. Voting rights on such shares remain frozen till the rightful
owner claims these shares.

The Company, acting as a trustee in respect of the unclaimed shares, follows the modalities for the
operation of the said account in the manner set out in regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing
Regulations, 2015.

The summary of this account for FY2021 is as follows:

                                                                           No. of              No. of
Sr. No.   Particulars                                                   shareholders           shares



    i.    Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding shares
          lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on 1 April 2020                  20                2,192
   ii.    No. of shareholders who approached the Company for
          transfer of shares from the Unclaimed Suspense Account
          during the year 2020-21                                                      –                   –
   iii.   No. of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
          the Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year 2020-21                       –                   –
   iv.    No. of shares transferred to IEPF Authority during the
          year 2020-21                                                                 –                   –
   v.     Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding
          shares lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on
          31 March 2021                                                               20                2,192




Nomination
Individual shareholders holding shares singly or jointly in physical form can nominate a person in
whose name the shares shall be transferable in the case of death of the registered shareholder(s).
The prescribed nomination form (SH-13) will be sent by the share transfer agent of the Company upon
such request and is also available on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

Nomination facility for shares held in electronic form is also available with depository participant.

Credit Rating
The Company has neither issued any debt instruments nor undertaken any fixed deposit programme or
any scheme or proposal involving mobilisation of funds, whether in India or abroad. However, it has
obtained on 31 August 2020 ‘AAA/Stable’ rating for long-term and ‘A1+’ rating for short-term bank
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




facilities of the Company from CRISIL. Further, in response to letter dated 19 August 2020 of the
Company, CRISIL vide its letter dated 31 August 2020 has withdrawn ‘FAAA/Stable’ rating on the fixed
deposits of the Company, since there are no public fixed deposits lying with the Company.




                                                                                                                   65
                     General Shareholder Information




                                Live webcast of AGM
                                Pursuant to regulation 44(6) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, top 100 listed entities shall, with
                                effect from 1 April 2019, provide one-way live webcast of the proceedings of their AGM. Accordingly,
                                as in the previous year, the Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin to facilitate live
                                webcast of the proceedings of the ensuing AGM scheduled on 22 July 2021.

                                Members who are entitled to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of AGM by logging on to
                                the e-voting website of KFin at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/using secure login credentials provided
                                for e-voting.

                                AGM through VC
                                Pursuant to an MCA circular, the Company will also provide two-way video conferencing or webex
                                facility to members to participate in the 14th AGM. For details, refer the Notice of the AGM, which is on
                                the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports and on the website of
                                the stock exchanges.

                                Voting through electronic means
                                Pursuant to section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder and provisions
                                under the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, every listed company is required to provide its members,
                                the facility to exercise their right to vote at general meetings by electronic means.

                                The Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin as the authorised agency for this purpose,
                                to facilitate such e-voting for its members.

                                The shareholders will therefore be able to exercise their voting rights on the items put up in the Notice
                                of AGM, through e-voting. Further, in accordance with the Companies (Management and Administration)
                                Rules, 2014 and MCA circulars, the Company will also provide e-voting facility for members attending
                                the AGM through VC or OAVM.

                                SEBI has issued a circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9 December 2020 for increase in
                                the participation by the public non-institutional shareholders/retail shareholders in the e-voting
                                process. It has been decided to enable e-voting to all the demat account holders, via a single login
                                credential, through their demat accounts/websites of depositories/ depository participants. Demat
                                account holders will be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the e-voting service
                                providers. This will not only facilitate seamless authentication, but also enhance the ease and
                                convenience of participating in the e-voting process.

                                Shareholders, who are attending the AGM through VC or OAVM and who have not already cast their
                                votes by remote e-voting shall only be able to exercise their right of voting at the meeting.

                                The cut-off date, as per the said Rules, shall be 15 July 2021 and the remote e-voting shall be open
                                for a period of three days, from 19 July 2021 (9.00 a.m.) till 21 July 2021 (5.00 p.m.). The Board has
                                appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary as the scrutiniser for the
                                e-voting process.

                                The detailed procedure is given in the Notice of the 14th AGM and is also placed on the Company’s
                                website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

                                Outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/
                                warrants
                                The Company does not have any outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/warrants as on date
                                of this report.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     66
                     General Shareholder Information




                                Plant locations
                                Bajaj Auto has plants located at the following places:

                                1.   Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 (Maharashtra)
                                2.   Bajaj Nagar, Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136 (Maharashtra)
                                3.   MIDC, Plot No. A1, Mahalunge Village, Chakan 410 501 Dist. Pune (Maharashtra)
                                4.   Plot No. 2, Sector-10, IIE Pantnagar, Udhamsinghnagar 263 531 (Uttarakhand)

                                Address for correspondence
                                Investors and shareholders can correspond with the share transfer agent or the registered office of the
                                Company at the following address:


                                Share transfer agent
                                KFin Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
                                (previously known as Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd.)
                                Unit: Bajaj Auto Ltd.
                                Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 and 32,
                                Financial District, Nanakramguda,
                                Serilingampally Mandal,
                                Hyderabad 500 032, Telangana.

                                Contact persons
                                Bhaskar Roy
                                Mohd. Mohsinuddin
                                Tel. No: (040) 6716 2222
                                Fax No: (040) 2300 1153
                                Toll free No: 1800 309 4001
                                Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
                                Website: www.kfintech.com or https://ris.kfintech.com/


                                Company
                                Bajaj Auto Ltd.
                                Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

                                Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
                                Dr. J Sridhar
                                Tel. No: (020) 6610 6503
                                Fax No: (020) 2740 7380
                                Email: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                Website: www.bajajauto.com

                                Shareholders may get in touch with the company secretary for further assistance.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     68
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The directors present their Fourteenth Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the year
ended 31 March 2021.

Financial Results
The financial results of the Company are elaborated in the report on Management Discussion and
Analysis. Given below are the financial highlights.

Sales in numbers                                                                                 FY2021       FY2020


Two-wheelers                                                                                   3,605,893    3,947,568
Commercial vehicles                                                                              367,021      667,644
Total                                                                                          3,972,914    4,615,212
Of which exports                                                                               2,054,247    2,171,105

                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                      FY2021       FY2020


Total revenue                                                                                  29,017.54    31,652.21
Total expenses                                                                                 23,078.54    25,072.01
Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                         5,939.00     6,580.20
Exceptional items                                                                                       -             -
Profit before tax                                                                               5,939.00     6,580.20
Tax expense                                                                                     1,384.41     1,480.22
Profit for the year                                                                             4,554.59     5,099.98
Earnings per share (K)                                                                             157.5        176.3



Closing balances in reserve/other equity
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                      FY2021       FY2020


General reserve                                                                                 5,887.60     5,431.60
Retained earnings                                                                              18,861.25    14,750.44
Cash flow hedging reserve                                                                         148.90          5.63
Costs of hedging reserve                                                                          (58.06)    (121.81)
FVTOCI reserve                                                                                     88.43     (413.13)
Share based payments reserve                                                                       16.91         10.01
Treasury shares                                                                                   (32.14)      (26.62)
Total                                                                                          24,912.89    19,636.12
Note: Detailed movement of above reserves can be seen in ‘Statement of Changes in Equity’.		
                                                                                                                                14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                           69
                     Directors’ Report




                                Dividend Distribution Policy
                                Under the regulation 43A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015,
                                as amended, the Company has formulated a dividend distribution policy. The Board at its meeting held
                                on 17 March 2021 has amended the existing dividend distribution policy in a major way.

                                The policy sets out the parameters and circumstances that will be taken into account by the Board in
                                determining the distribution of dividend to its shareholders.

                                As a green initiative, the policy has been uploaded on the Company’s website and can be accessed at
                                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies. A copy of the policy will be made available to any
                                shareholder on request by email.

                                Dividend
                                The directors recommend for consideration of shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting,
                                payment of a dividend of H140 per equity share of H 10 each (1400%) for the year ended 31 March 2021.

                                For the year ended 31 March 2020, the dividend paid was H 120 per share of H 10 each (1200%) and
                                the total dividend and the tax thereon to the extent applicable aggregated to H 4,186.16 crore.

                                As per the amended Income Tax Act, 1961, hereafter there will be no dividend distribution tax payable
                                by the Company. The dividend, if declared, will be taxable in the hands of the shareholders subject to
                                tax deduction at source at the applicable rates. For details, shareholders are requested to refer to the
                                Notice of annual general meeting.

                                The dividend recommended is in accordance with the principles and criteria as set out in the dividend
                                distribution policy.

                                Share Capital
                                The paid-up equity share capital as on 31 March 2021 was H 289.37 crore. There was no public issue,
                                rights issue, bonus issue or preferential issue etc. during the year. The Company has not issued shares
                                with differential voting rights or sweat equity shares.

                                Operations
                                Detailed information on the Company’s operations is covered in the report on Management Discussion
                                and Analysis.

                                Capacity Expansion and New Projects
                                The Company’s current installed capacity is 6.33 million units per annum.

                                Detailed information on capacity expansion and new projects is covered in the report on Management
                                Discussion and Analysis.


                                Research and Development (R&D) and
                                Technology Absorption
                                FY2021 was a difficult year due to the impact of Covid-19. However, this did not deter the Company’s
                                R&D from achieving the product launches that were planned for the year.

                                A) Products
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                During 2020-21, R&D successfully delivered 41 projects across various product segments to meet the
                                domestic and export requirements. Information on the new products is covered in the report on
                                Management Discussion and Analysis.



                     70
                                                                                                           Directors’ Report




B) Processes
R&D has been working on improving its operations in a number of areas as listed below:

l    Manpower: R&D has expanded its team size in areas of design, analysis and validation to facilitate
     the rapidly expanding aspirations of the Company.

l    Facilities: R&D continued to enhance its design, computing, prototype manufacturing and validation
     facilities. A number of new test facilities and prototyping facilities were added.

C) Technology
As in the past, new and improved technology has been introduced during the year. Such information is
covered in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

D) Outgo
The expenditure on R&D during 2020-21 and in the previous year was:
                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

Particulars                                                                           FY2021          FY2020



i.   Capital (including technical know-how)                                              21.14             67.02
ii. Recurring                                                                          403.33             408.04
Total                                                                                  424.47         475.06
iii. Total research and development expenditure as a percentage of sales                1.56%             1.63%



Conservation of Energy
Company continues its efforts to reduce and optimize the energy consumption at all its manufacturing
facilities, including corporate office at Pune.

Significant reduction in energy consumption has been achieved by various means as shown hereunder:


A) Electrical Energy
		      l     Efficient utilisation of rooftop solar plants: 5MW at Waluj, 1MW at Pantnagar, 3.2MW at Akurdi
              and 2MW at Chakan.

		      l     Installation of 1,050 energy efficient LED luminaires across all our factories for energy
              conservation. Estimated savings are some 23,000 units per month.

		      l     Provision of energy efficient motor for de-sludge pump in paint shop at Chakan and energy
              efficient motors at ETP at Akurdi.

		      l     Installation of energy efficient air compressor, sealing of small air leakages through
              ultrasonic air leak detector, optimising pneumatic pressure for paint shop equipment for
              energy conservation.

		      l     Installation of a centralised ARP system for energy conservation of paint shop MCD Waluj.

		      l     Installation of power factor controller RTPFC panels at heavy fluctuating load areas for
                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




              power quality improvement and overall KVAH reduction by maintaining overall power factor
              greater than 0.99 across all factory locations.

		      l     Use of HVLS fans and pivot fans for air circulation in shop floors.

		      l     Provision of ION Boiler at the washing machine for heating of the water in place of
              conventional heaters at Pantnagar.

                                                                                                                         71
                     Directors’ Report




                                		       l   Water chiller integration and removal of multiple heating, ventilation and air conditioning
                                             (HVAC) systems led to optimum utilisation of energy in water chillers for the R&D
                                             process area.

                                		       l   ASU conventional blowers replaced by DC brushless motors at Pantnagar.

                                		       l   Optimum control of plant illumination by centrally controlling of plant street lighting through
                                             PLC logic remote switching at all plants.

                                		       l   Installation of VFDs for ARP blowers, ED and topcoat forced coolers at the three-wheeler
                                             engine assembly and paint shop.

                                		       l   Centralised operation of machines resulting in reduced power requirement of auxiliary
                                             port equipment.

                                		       l   Continued use of motion sensors for offices and washroom lights switching.


                                B)		 Water
                                		       l   Rain water storage pond with capacity of 85,000 cubic meter for Waluj plant.

                                		       l   Use of ETP treated water with rainwater to feed RO plant for paint shop process.

                                		       l   Continuous reuse of treated water for processes like cooling towers, vehicle washing, test
                                             track etc. in addition to toilet flushing and gardening.

                                		       l   Continued rainwater harvesting across all plants; and efficient use of the sewage treatment
                                             plant (STP) water for gardening.

                                		       l   Reuse of pre-treatment line DM2 overflow water for DM plant at Pantnagar.

                                		       l   Reuse of dewatering mist spray water in RCDI stage at Pantnagar.

                                		       l   Use of one touch taps and sensor-based taps for hand wash at various areas across
                                             factories.

                                		       l   Orificing of taps and flush valves at hand wash and toilet to control consumption.

                                		       l   Rerouting and resizing of the fresh water supply headers above the ground at Waluj plant.

                                		       l   Use of a second stage RO plant to further treat the high TDS reject of first stage RO and
                                             generation of permeate for industrial use in paint shop.

                                		       l   Water chiller integration and removal of HVAC systems resulting in reduced water
                                             consumption.


                                C)		 LPG/Propane
                                		       l   Continued use of magnetic resonance in oven PNG supply.

                                		       l   Continued use of low temperature chemicals for pre-treatment process at paint shops.

                                		       l   Use of induction cooking at canteens for vessels up to 40 inch size.

                                		       l   Use of energy efficient burners in the canteens in all plants.

                                		       l   Improved thermal efficiency of oven by thermo coating application on the oven’s
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                             internal surface.

                                		       l   Lacquer oven auto ON/OFF during lunch and dinner time in paint shops across all plants.



                     72
                                                                                                             Directors’ Report




D)		 Utilisation of Renewable Energy-Key Initiatives
		       l    Usage of renewable solar power generation: 5MW at Waluj, 1MW at Pantnagar, 3.2MW
              at Akurdi and 2MW at Chakan generating 160 lakh units per year of renewable energy.

		       l    Utilisation of solar water heaters in the canteen of all plants.

		       l    Use of direct sunlight to illuminate shops by installation of skylights across all plants.

Impact of Measures Taken
As a result of the initiatives taken for conservation of energy and natural resources, the Company has
brough about an overall reduction in consumption as given in the table below:

                                                                           % Reduction w.r.t. previous year
Description                                                                       FY2021*                  FY2020



Electricity consumption                                                              10.20                   1.20
Water consumption                                                                     9.60                  17.43
LPG/PNG consumption                                                                 -4.50#                   3.97
* Nine months performance.
# Increase is effect of lower volume of Commercial Vehicles production.



Investment/Savings
                                                                                                      (H In Crore)

Description                                                                       FY2021                   FY2020



Investment for energy conservation activities                                         1.69                   1.61
Recurring savings achieved through above activities                                   0.53                   0.61
Detailed information on the above is given in the report on Business Responsibility.

Awards and Accolades
l   Certified with latest Safety System Certification, ISO 45001:2018, for the Waluj and Pantnagar plants.
l   Bureau Veritas Covid-Self Safe Assessment: Certification in Platinum category.

International Business
Despite the lockdown in March 2020, Bajaj Auto exported over 2.05 million vehicles in 2020-21. Exports
accounted for H 12,687 crore or USD$ 1.65 billion and comprised 46.8% of net sales. The Company
continues to remain, by far, India’s No.1 exporter of motorcycles and three-wheelers.

More detailed information is given in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The Company continued to be a net foreign exchange earner during the year.

Total foreign exchange earned by the Company during the year under review was H 12,181.88 crore,
                                                                                                                                 14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




as compared to H 11,872.37 crore during the previous year.

Total foreign exchange outflow during the year under review was H 753.34 crore, as against
H 872.88 crore during the previous year.




                                                                                                                           73
                     Directors’ Report




                                Industrial Relations
                                This year, the Company embarked on the process map towards reinventing transformation. This has
                                not only set new benchmarks, but also streamlined its business excellence through productivity and
                                people engagement.

                                Industrial relations with staff and workmen across all the plants viz. Akurdi, Waluj, Chakan and
                                Pantnagar, continued to be cordial.


                                Fostering Employee Engagement
                                Keeping business excellence as the centre, the Company has not only improvised engagement
                                activities, but also tried to instil trust and confidence through innovative engagement frameworks.

                                Various employee engagement activities like monthly/quarterly Kaizen competitions, online yoga
                                sessions, online learning platforms and certification courses have been organised to inculcate a sense
                                of belonging among employees across all plants.


                                Employee Health and Wellness
                                To ensure that the manufacturing processes and supply chain do not get affected during the Covid-19
                                pandemic, the Company has taken several measures such as provision of medicine to improve
                                immunity, doctor’s advice, coupled with regular health check-ups and daily screening of employees.

                                Regular deep-cleaning and sanitisation of shop floor and offices are being conducted. All employees
                                have been equipped with sanitisers and protective masks and are covered by a Covid–19 insurance,
                                which includes pay and benefits, if they are quarantined or diagnosed with the disease.

                                At its Waluj plant, the Company has set up a Covid care centre and at Chakan, Akurdi and Pantnagar,
                                it has collaborated with various Covid care centres to quarantine affected employees and
                                family members.

                                Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
                                PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (PT BAI)
                                Routine business operations of PT BAI, a 99.25% subsidiary of Bajaj Auto, remain discontinued.

                                Indonesia is a large two-wheelers market and hence of interest for PT BAI. All the required
                                manufacturing, import and business licences stand renewed.

                                In the Sports category, PT BAI would continue to study the evolving market and evaluate different
                                possible opportunities.

                                In view of global pandemic situation all over the world, the Company maintains a cautious approach and
                                monitor the market developments.


                                Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV, Netherlands (BAIH BV)
                                BAIH BV is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Ltd. Over the years, through this
                                subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of €198.1 million (H 1,219 crore) and holds approximately
                                48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM), the fastest growing motorcycle brand in the world.

                                Calendar year 2020 was impacted due to Covid-19, but KTM bounced back strongly in the second half of
                                the year backed by good retail demand in USA, LATAM and Australian markets.

                                l   KTM sold 208,852 motorcycles versus 213,949 in the previous year.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                l   KTM achieved a turnover of €1.41 billion compared to €1.51 billion in the previous year.
                                l   Profit after tax was at €71.2 million (H 638 crore) versus €84.6 million (H 670 crore).
                                l   The proportionate profit to Bajaj Auto was €34.1 million (H 306 crore) as against €40.6 million
                                    (H 322 crore) in the previous year, which shows up in the consolidated results.

                     74
                     Directors’ Report




                                During the year, Bajaj Auto manufactured 148,183 units of KTM and Husqvarna at its Chakan plant.
                                Of these, 63,187 units were sold through the Pro-biking network and 79,832 were exported.


                                Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
                                Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand with an issued
                                and subscribed share capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H11 crore). It has obtained all necessary
                                approvals from local authorities to set up an International Business Centre and an Engineering Design
                                Centre under this subsidiary.

                                While the start of the activity was delayed by the pandemic, the Engineering Design Centre is now
                                operational and international designers are operating from this new facility in Bangkok. This marks
                                a new beginning for Bajaj R&D expanding its design centre to trend-defining markets round the globe.
                                Full scale operations including International Business Centre is likely to commence in the coming year.

                                During the year under review, no company became or ceased to be our subsidiary, joint venture or
                                associate company.

                                Anti-Corruption Initiatives
                                The Company has established several policies to prevent corruption within Bajaj Auto. These are
                                suitably integrated with the business operations. The Company also has adequate disclosure practices
                                with regard to anti-corruption activities. Some of these practices are given below:


                                Signing of the Anti-Corruption Initiative of
                                World Economic Forum (WEF)
                                In support of the initiative taken by WEF, the Company is a signatory to the ‘Commitment to
                                Anti-Corruption’ and is supporting the ‘Partnering Against Corruption-Principles for Countering
                                Bribery’ derived from Transparency International’s Business Principles. This calls for a commitment to
                                two fundamental actions, viz. a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and the development of a
                                practical and effective implementation programme.


                                Adoption of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Charters
                                Your Company, being a member of CII, has adopted the following Codes/Charters:

                                1.   CII Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action.
                                2.   Model Code of Conduct for Ethical Business practices.
                                3.   Charters of Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Collaborative Employee Relations.
                                4.   Charters on Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Contract Labour.

                                More details on the subject are given in the Business Responsibility Report hosted on the Company’s
                                website on https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

                                Annual Return
                                A copy of the annual return as provided under sub-section (3) of section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013
                                (the ‘Act’), in the prescribed form, is hosted on the Company’s website and can be accessed at
                                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports.

                                Number of Meetings of the Board
                                There were five meetings of the Board held during the year. Detailed information is given in the
                                Corporate Governance Report.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     76
                                                                                                        Directors’ Report




Directors’ Responsibility Statement
As required under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act, directors, to the best of their
knowledge and belief, state that:

l   in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards had been followed
    along with proper explanation relating to material departures;

l   the directors had selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made
    judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of
    the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of the
    Company for that period;

l   the directors had taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting
    records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company
    and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;

l   the directors have overseen that the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.

l   the directors have laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and that, to
    the best of their knowledge, examination and analysis, such internal financial controls have been
    adequate and were operating effectively; and

l   the directors had ensured through oversight of the existence of proper systems to ensure
    compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that, to the best of their knowledge,
    such systems were adequate and were operating effectively.

Details regarding Frauds reported by Auditors
under section 143(12)
During the year under review, there were no frauds reported by the auditors to the audit committee or
the Board under section 143(12) of the Act.

Declaration by independent directors
The independent directors have submitted their declaration of independence, as required under section
149(7) of the Act stating that they meet the criteria of independence as provided in section 149(6) of
the Act, as amended and Regulation 16 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations, 2015’), as amended. The independent directors have also
confirmed compliance with the provisions of the rule 6 of Companies (Appointment and Qualifications
of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, relating to inclusion of their name in the databank of
independent directors.

The Board took on record the declaration and confirmation submitted by the independent directors
regarding their meeting the prescribed criteria of independence, after undertaking due assessment of
the veracity of the same as required under Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, 2015.

Directors’ remuneration policy and criteria for
matters under section 178
The Board, at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, revised the commission from H 150,000 to H 250,000
payable per meeting to all non-executive (including independent) directors for meetings of Board and
                                                                                                                            14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




committees thereof attended by them from 1 April 2019 onwards as members.

The salient features and changes to the policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration form
a part of the Corporate Governance Report. The policy is on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies




                                                                                                                      77
                     Directors’ Report




                                Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
                                Information regarding loans, guarantees and investments covered under the provisions of section 186 of
                                the Act, are detailed in the financial statements.

                                Related Party Transactions
                                No related party transactions (RPTs) were entered into by the Company during the financial year, which
                                could have attracted the provisions of section 188 of the Act. There being no ‘material’ RPTs as defined
                                under regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, 2015, there are no details to be disclosed in Form AOC-2 in
                                that regard.

                                During the year 2020-21, pursuant to section 177 of the Act and regulation 23 of Listing Regulations,
                                2015, all RPTs were placed before the audit committee for its approval. All RPTs during the year were
                                conducted at arms’ length and were in the ordinary course of business.

                                Pursuant to regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, 2015, the Board, at its meeting held on 13 March 2019,
                                revised the policy on materiality of RPTs and on dealing with RPTs inter alia by including clear
                                threshold limits.

                                The revised policy on materiality of RPTs as approved by the Board is on the Company’s website
                                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

                                Material Changes and Commitments
                                There have been no material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Company,
                                which have occurred between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.

                                Risk Management Policy
                                Information on the development and implementation of a risk management policy for the Company,
                                including identification of elements of risk which, in the opinion of the Board may threaten the existence
                                of the Company, is given in the Corporate Governance Report.

                                Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
                                Section 135 of the Act and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014
                                have been amended substantially with effect from 22 January 2021.

                                In terms of the provisions of the Act read with amended Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility
                                Policy) Rules, 2014, the Annual Report on CSR activities in the format prescribed under Annexure II of
                                the said Rules is annexed to this Report.

                                In line with the said amendments, the Board, at its meeting held on 29 April 2021, amended the existing
                                policy. The policy including the composition of the CSR committee is uploaded on the Company’s
                                website www.bajajauto.com

                                The Chief Financial Officer has certified that the funds disbursed have been utilised for the purpose and
                                in the manner approved by the Board for FY2021.

                                Formal Annual Evaluation of the Performance
                                of the Board, its Committees, Chairperson and
                                Individual Directors
                                Information on the manner in which a formal annual evaluation has been made by the Board of its own
                                performance and that of its Committees, Chairperson and Individual Directors is given in the Corporate
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                Governance Report.




                     78
                                                                                                             Directors’ Report




Presentation of Financial Statements
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2021 have been disclosed as per
Division Il of Schedule III to the Act.

Indian Accounting Standards, 2015
The annexed financial statements comply in all material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards
(Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the Act, Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
and other relevant provisions of the Act.

Consolidated Financial Statements
The directors also present the audited consolidated financial statements incorporating the duly audited
financial statements of the subsidiaries, as prepared in compliance with the Act, applicable accounting
standards and Listing Regulations, 2015.

Internal Audit
At the beginning of each financial year, an audit plan is rolled out with approval by the Company’s audit
committee. The plan is aimed at evaluation of the efficacy and adequacy of internal control systems and
compliance thereof, robustness of internal processes, policies and accounting procedures and
compliance with laws and regulations. Based on the reports of internal audit, process owners
undertake corrective action in their respective areas. Significant audit observations and corrective
actions are periodically presented to the audit committee of the Board.

Statutory Disclosures
The summary of the key financials of the Company’s subsidiaries (Form AOC-1) is included in this
Annual Report. A copy of the audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be
made available by email to members of the Company, seeking such information.

The audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be available for inspection
upto the date of annual general meeting by any member of the Company on the Company’s website
www.bajajauto.com

Details as required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Act, read with rule 5(1) of Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended, containing,
inter alia, ratio of remuneration of directors and KMP to median remuneration of employees and
percentage increase in the median remuneration are annexed to this Report.

Details of top ten employees in terms of the remuneration and employees in receipt of remuneration as
required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Act, read with rule 5(2) and 5(3) of Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended, which form part of
the Directors’ Report, will be made available to any shareholder on request, as per provisions of section
136(1) of the said Act.

The directors’ responsibility statement as required by section 134(5) of the Act, appears in a preceding paragraph.

A cash flow statement for 2020-21 is attached to the balance sheet.

The provisions of section 148 of the Act, are not applicable to the Company. Accordingly, there is no
requirement of maintenance of cost records as specified under sub-section (1) of section 148 of the Act.
                                                                                                                                 14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Pursuant to the legislation ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013’, the Company has a policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace.
During the year under review, one complaint was received from one of the employees, which was
investigated and redressed by the internal complaints committee formed under the aforesaid Act and
closed. The actions recommended by the Committee have been implemented.

There was no other case reported during the year under review under the said policy.

                                                                                                                           79
                     Directors’ Report




                                Directors’ and Key Managerial Personnel-Changes
                                I. Changes in Directorate
                                    (a) Rahul Bajaj, after successfully leading Bajaj Auto Ltd. (including erstwhile BAL) for five decades,
                                        stepped down as Executive Chairman and was appointed as Non-executive Chairman with
                                        effect from 1 April 2020. Given his age, Rahul Bajaj has decided to step down as Non-executive
                                        Chairman with effect from close of business hours on 30 April 2021.

                                		       Rahul Bajaj has made a huge contribution to the success of the Company and the Group over the
                                         last five decades. Considering his tremendous experience, it is in the interest of the Company to
                                         continue to benefit from his experience, knowledge and wisdom from time to time in an advisory
                                         role and as a mentor.

                                		       In light of the above, the Board at its meeting held on 29 April 2021, on the recommendation
                                         of nomination and remuneration committee and with approval by the audit committee
                                         unanimously conferred upon Rahul Bajaj, the title of Chairman Emeritus of the Company for
                                         a term of five years with effect from 1 May 2021.

                                		       As Chairman Emeritus, Rahul Bajaj will, inter alia, mentor, guide and provide perspective to the
                                         Board and management including in relation to the broad strategic aspects of the business,
                                         corporate governance-related matters and support in establishing and enabling relations with
                                         external fora like industry chambers and institutions etc.

                                    (b) Consequent upon the resignation of Rahul Bajaj, Chairman of the Company, the Board at its
                                        meeting held on 29 April 2021 has unanimously appointed Niraj Bajaj, non-executive director of
                                        the Company as Chairman of the Company with effect from 1 May 2021.


                                II. Retirement by Rotation
                                    Independent directors hold office for a fixed term not exceeding five years from the date of their
                                    appointment and are not liable to retire by rotation.

                                    The Act, mandates that at least two–third of the total number of directors (excluding independent
                                    directors) shall be liable to retire by rotation. Accordingly, Niraj Bajaj (DIN 00028261) and
                                    Sanjiv Bajaj (DIN 00014615), directors, being the longest in the office among the directors liable to
                                    retire by rotation, retire from the Board this year and, being eligible, have offered themselves for
                                    re–appointment.

                                    Brief details of Niraj Bajaj and Sanjiv Bajaj are given in the notice of annual general meeting.


                                III. Re-appointment of Whole-time Director
                                    Pradeep Shrivastava was appointed as the Whole-time Director of the Company for a period of five
                                    years from 1 April 2016 up to 31 March 2021. The Board, on recommendation of the nomination and
                                    remuneration committee and after evaluating his performance and the valuable contribution made
                                    by him in the progress of the Company, has approved his re-appointment for another term of five
                                    years commencing from 1 April 2021, subject to approval of the shareholders.

                                    Accordingly, resolution seeking his re-appointment for a further term of five years and brief details
                                    of Pradeep Shrivastava are given in the notice of annual general meeting.

                                There was no other change in the directors and key managerial personnel during the year under review
                                since the last report.

                                Detailed information on the directors is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     82
                                                                                                     Directors’ Report




Significant and Material Orders passed by the
Regulators or Courts
During the year under review, there were no significant and material orders passed by the regulators
or courts or tribunals, which may impact the going concern status of the Company and its operations
in future.

Covid-19 Impact
The second wave in Covid-19 now exceed 3 lakh cases per day across India. A complete lockdown, like
the last time, is not yet enforced. While fear, economic uncertainty and disruptions continue to impact
the already fragile business environment and our operations, the full impact of this cannot be assessed
at this point of time. However, this does not affect the going concern status of the Company.

Details of Internal Financial Controls with reference
to the Financial Statements
The Company has documented its internal financial controls considering the essential components of
various critical processes, both physical and operational. This includes its design, implementation and
maintenance, along with periodic internal review of operational effectiveness and sustenance and
whether these are commensurate with the nature of its business and the size and complexity
of its operations.

This ensures orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
policies, safeguarding of its assets, prevention of errors, accuracy and completeness of the accounting
records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information.

Internal financial controls with reference to the financial statements were adequate and operating
effectively.

Corporate Governance
Pursuant to Listing Regulations, 2015, a separate chapter titled ‘Corporate Governance’ has been
included in this Annual Report, along with the reports on Management Discussion and Analysis and
General Shareholder Information.

All Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of
Conduct for 2020-21. A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director (CEO) of the Company
is contained in this Annual Report.

The Managing Director (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer have certified to the Board with regard
to the financial statements and other matters as required under regulation 17(8) of the Listing
Regulations, 2015.

Certificate from the auditors of the Company regarding compliance of conditions of corporate
governance is annexed to this Report.

Employee Stock Option Scheme
The Company grants share-based benefits to eligible employees with a view to attracting and retaining
talent, to encourage employees to align individual performance with the Company objectives and to
promote their increased participation in the growth of the Company.
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




During the year under review, there has been no change in the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) of the Company. BAL-ESOS 2019 is in compliance with SEBI (Share
Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and this has been certified by the statutory auditors
of the Company.




                                                                                                                   83
                     Directors’ Report




                                In line with regulation 14 of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014,
                                a statement giving complete details, as at 31 March 2021, is available on the website of the Company
                                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

                                Details of options vested, exercised and cancelled are provided in the notes to the standalone
                                financial statements.

                                Business Responsibility Report
                                Pursuant to the provisions of the Listing Regulations, 2015, a Business Responsibility Report (‘BRR’) has
                                been hosted on the website and can be accessed at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports.

                                The BRR highlights the initiatives, actions and processes of the Company in conducting its business in
                                line with its environmental, social and governance obligations.

                                A copy of the BRR will be made available by email to any shareholder on request.

                                Secretarial Standards of ICSI
                                The Company has complied with the requirements prescribed under the Secretarial Standards on
                                Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS–1) and General Meetings (SS–2) read with the MCA Circulars
                                granting exemptions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.

                                Statutory Auditor
                                Pursuant to provisions of Section 139 of the Act, the members at the annual general meeting of the
                                Company held on 20 July 2017 appointed S R B C & CO LLP (Firm Registration No. 324982E/E300003)
                                as statutory auditors of the Company from the conclusion of 10th annual general meeting till the
                                conclusion of 15th annual general meeting, covering one term of five consecutive years. The statutory
                                auditors have confirmed that they are not disqualified from continuing as auditors of the Company.

                                The statutory audit report for the year 2020-21 does not contain any qualification, reservation or
                                adverse remark or disclaimer made by statutory auditor.

                                Secretarial Auditor
                                Pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Act and Rules made thereunder, the Company
                                has re-appointed, Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary (Membership No.1587,
                                CP No. 572) to undertake the secretarial audit of the Company. Secretarial audit report for the year
                                2020-21 issued by him in the prescribed form MR-3 is annexed to this Report.

                                The secretarial audit report does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark or
                                disclaimer made by the secretarial auditor.

                                In addition to the above and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 8 February 2019, a report on secretarial
                                compliance by Shyamprasad D Limaye for the financial year ended 31 March 2021 has been submitted
                                with the stock exchanges. There are no observations, reservations or qualifications in that report.

                                On behalf of the Board of Directors,




                                Rahul Bajaj
                                Chairman
                                Pune: 29 April 2021
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     84
                                                                                                         Directors’ Report




Annual Report on CSR activities
1. Brief outline of Company’s CSR Policy


   Introduction
   The vision and philosophy of late Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the Corporate
   Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the Group. He embodied the concept of trusteeship in
   business and common good and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and transparent
   functioning.

   Bajaj Group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond
   balance sheets or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business
   and industry make to the lives of people.

   Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the
   vicinity of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
   conservation, infrastructure and community development and response to natural calamities. For
   society, however, Bajaj is more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment and
   the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.

   It is this goodwill that has made us “The World’s Favourite Indian!”


   Guiding principles
   The Company believes that social investments should:

   l   Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
       generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society
       over long periods.
   l   Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
       strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.
   l   Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education and
       productivity.
   l   Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
       to create excellence for self and for the team.
   l   Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it
       has a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.
   l   Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
       lowest rung irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.
   l   Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
       adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.


   Brief contents of CSR Policy
   Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
   Rules, 2014 have been amended substantially with effect from 22 January 2021. Accordingly, the
   CSR Policy which was framed by the Company on 14 May 2014 has got amended on 29 April 2021,
   with approvals of the CSR Committee and Board of Directors. The Policy, inter alia, covers the
   following:

   l   Philosophy, Approach and Direction
   l   Guiding Principles for selection, implementation and monitoring of activities
   l   Guiding Principles for formulation of Annual Action Plan
                                                                                                                             14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                       85
                     Directors’ Report




                                2. Composition of the CSR Committee



                                                                             Designation/        Number of meetings    Number of meetings of
                                                                             Nature of           of CSR Committee held CSR Committee attended
                                    Sr. No. Name of Director                 Directorship        during the year       during the year



                                         1.   Rahul Bajaj                    Chairman                                                            3
                                         2.   Rajiv Bajaj                    Member                                                               -
                                                                                                                3
                                         3.   Pradeep Shrivastava            Member                                                              2
                                         4.   Dr. Naushad Forbes             Member                                                              2


                                3. Web-link where composition of CSR                   https://www.bajajauto.com/about-us/our-team#grant-tabs2
                                   committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects              https://www.bajajauto.com/pdf/csr-policy-bal.pdf
                                   approved by the Board are disclosed
                                   on the website of the Company

                                4. Details of Impact assessment of CSR 			                                       Not applicable
                                   projects carried out in pursuance of
                                   sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies
                                   (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
                                   Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report)

                                5. Details of the amount available for set off 			                               Not applicable
                                   in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the
                                   Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility
                                   Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for
                                   set off for the financial year, if any

                                6. Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)                       H 6,345.63 crore

                                7. (a) Two percent of average net profit of the company                          H 126.91 crore
                                		 as per section 135(5)

                                  (b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or		                               NIL
                                		 programmes or activities of the previous
                                		financial years

                                  (c) Amount required to be set off for the			                                   NIL
                                		 financial year, if any

                                    (d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c)                   H 126.91 crore

                                8. (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:

                                                                                                         Amount Unspent (in H )
                                                                   Total Amount transferred to Unspent     Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule
                                                                    CSR Account as per section 135(6)            VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
                                    Total Amount Spent for the
                                    financial year (in H )         Amount          Date of transfer       Name of the Fund        Amount              Date of transfer



                                    H 128.25 crore                                  Not applicable, since there is no unspent amount
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     86
                     Directors’ Report




                          (b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
                                                                                                                                                                      Mode of
                                                                                                                                           Amount                     implementation-
                                                                                                                           Amount          spent in                   Through
                                                   Item from                                                             allocated     the current     Mode of        Implementing
                                                   the list of                   Location of the project                    for the      financial     implementation Agency
                          Sr.   Name of the        activities in Local area                                   Project       project            year    - Direct
                          No.   Project            Schedule VII (Yes/No)      State         District          duration    (K in Cr.)      (K in Cr.)   (Yes/No)       Name



                            1   Bajaj Water        Environment Yes            Maharashtra Aurangabad          60              29.21             4.00         No       AFARM
                                Conservation       Sustainability                                             months
                                Project phase II   (iv)
                            2   Bajaj Water        Environment Yes            Maharashtra Aurangabad          54                8.88            2.92         No       BAIF Institute
                                Conservation       Sustainability                                             months                                                  for Sustainable
                                Project            (iv)                                                                                                               Livelihood
                                                                                                                                                                      Development
                            3   Support to       Healthcare (i) Yes – partly PAN India      PAN India         6 months          3.00            2.08        Yes       BAL CV Dept
                                equip autos with
                                passenger/driver
                                safety kit
                            4   Bajaj Water        Environment Yes            Maharashtra Aurangabad          60              16.54             3.00         No       Development
                                Conservation       Sustainability                                             months                                                  Support Center
                                Project phase II   (iv)
                            5   To restore water Environment Yes              Rajasthan,  Jahazpur,           60              27.00             5.00         No       Foundation for
                                resources in     Sustainability               Maharashtra Bhilwara,           months                                                  Ecological Security
                                water-scarce     (iv)                                     Udaipur,
                                and ecologically                                          Chittorgarh,
                                degraded dryland                                          Pratapgad,
                                regions                                                   Yawatmal
                                                                   No         Karnataka     Chickballapur,
                                                                              and Andhra    Kolar, Chittoor
                                                                              Pradesh
                            6   To render           Healthcare (i) Yes        Maharashtra Pune                48              15.00             5.00         No       Homeopathic
                                assistance for                                                                months                                                  Research and
                                completion of                                                                                                                         Charities
                                phase II and phase
                                III of the proposed
                                project.
                            7   Rahul Bajaj       Technology      Yes         Maharashtra Mumbai              15              12.50            10.00         No       IIT BOMBAY
                                Technology        Incubators                                                  months
                                Innovation Centre (ix)
                                (RBTIC)
                            8   JLN Rudrapur       Healthcare     Yes         Uttarakhand Rudrapur            24                3.00            3.00         No       Jankidevi Bajaj
                                Hospital           (i) Covid-19                                               months                                                  Gram Vikas Sanstha
                                renovation         project                                                                                                            (JBGVS)
                            9    Dry ration,     Healthcare       Yes         Maharashtra Mumbai, Pune 12                       2.80            2.80         No       JBGVS
                                food package to  (i) Covid-19                                          months
                                support impacted project           No         West Bengal, Kolkata,
                                auto/driver                                   Telangana    Hyderabad
                                families
                           10 Rural Health Care Healthcare        Yes         Maharashtra, Pune,              24                2.20            2.10         No       JBGVS
                              phase (2b)        (i) Covid-19                  Rajasthan    Aurangabad,        months
                                                project                       and          Sikar and
                                                                              Uttarakhand Udhamsingh
                                                                                           Nagar
                           11 Creating Covid       Healthcare     Yes         Maharashtra, Pune ,             12                7.55            7.55         No       JBGVS
                              Response project     (i) Covid-19               Rajasthan    Aurangabad,        months
                              funds                project                    and          Sikar and
                                                                              Uttarakhand Udhamsingh
                                                                                           Nagar
                           12 Construction         Healthcare (i) Yes         Maharashtra Aurangabad          24              10.56             7.40         No       JBGVS (Govt. Medical
                              of New Lecture                                                                  months                                                  college)
                              Theatre Complex
                           13 Action for a child   Reducing       No          PAN India     PAN India         36              15.00             4.00         No       Kailash Satyarthi
                              friendly world       inequality                                                 months                                                  Children’s
                                                   (iii)                                                                                                              Foundation
                           14 Bajaj Water         Environment Yes             Maharashtra Aurangabad          50              13.62             4.23         No       Marathwada Gramin
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                              Conservation        (iv) –                                                      months                                                  Vikas Sanstha
                              Project in Vaijapur conservation
                              Block               of natural
                                                  resources




                     88
                                                                                                                                               Directors’ Report




(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:(Contd.)

                                                                                                                                           Mode of
                                                                                                                Amount                     implementation-
                                                                                                Amount          spent in                   Through
                         Item from                                                            allocated     the current     Mode of        Implementing
                         the list of                     Location of the project                 for the      financial     implementation Agency
Sr.     Name of the      activities in Local area                                  Project       project            year    - Direct
No.     Project          Schedule VII (Yes/No)        State         District       duration    (K in Cr.)      (K in Cr.)   (Yes/No)       Name



 15 The Satyamev         Environment Yes              Maharashtra 40 Talukas,      24              10.00             6.70         No       Paani Foundation
    Jayate Water         Sustainability                           21 Districts     months
    Cup – phase 2 To (iv)
    highlight additional
    activities which
    are required to
    fight drought.
 16 Prana –         Healthcare          Yes           Maharashtra Pune,            24                4.60            2.90         No       PRANA – HYC
    Homeopathic     (i) Covid-19                                  Aurangabad       months
    Corona Response project
 17 Project NEEV:        Education – a. Yes           Uttarakhand Udhamsingh       36              10.26             2.00         No       United Way of Delhi
    well-being and       promoting                                Nagar            months
    development of       education (ii)
    0-6 years old
 18 For different       Livelihood      For different locations in Maharashtra,    Various        140.75            36.98         No       Aajeevika Bureau
    projects such       enhancement Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and PAN India in        periods                                                 Trust, Annamrita
    as enhancing        (ii),           both local areas and elsewhere.                                                                    Foundation, BAIF,
    livelihood of rural Healthcare (i),                                                                                                    JBGVS, Sparsh, Lend
    youth, food relief Environment                                                                                                         a hand India etc.
    for covid affected, Sustainability
    promotion           (iv), Education
    of livelihood,      (ii) etc.
    fostering
    entrepreneurship,
    clinic on
    clouds, water
    conservation
    project, vocational
    education
    programme etc.
    (expenditure on
    above project is
    below H 2 crore
    per project)
                                                                                                    Total         111.66
Note:
1. There is no amount transferred to unspent CSR account for any of the projects as per section 136(6).
2. Where the duration of the project is beyond the period of 36 months, the project was approved prior to 22 January 2021, when the new CSR Rules 		
   came into effect.
                                                                                                                                                                      14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                                                 89
                     Directors’ Report




                                (c)         Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:

                                                                                                                                                                  Mode of
                                                                                                                                                                  implementation
                                                                    Item from                                                                                     - Through
                                                                    the list of                                                       Amount             Mode of implementing
                                                                    activities in                    Location of the project         spent for    implementation agency
                                Sr.                                 Schedule VII Local area                                        the project           - Direct
                                No.         Name of the Project     to the Act    (Yes/No)        State         District             (K in Cr.)         (Yes/No) Name



                                  1         For different projects   Health (i),    For different locations in Maharashtra,               13.74         No       Basic Healthcare
                                            such as health services Rural           Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and PAN India in both                                 Services Trust,
                                            provided for tribal and Development local areas and elsewhere.                                                       MAHAN Trust,
                                            underserved              (x), Education                                                                              JBGVS, KEM
                                            communities,             (ii) etc.                                                                                   Hospital, Shiksha
                                            community based                                                                                                      Mandal etc.
                                            approach to improve
                                            health and nutritional
                                            status and to reduce
                                            deaths of tribals,
                                            Integrated rural and
                                            urban development
                                            program, upgradation of
                                            facilities at Kamalnayan
                                            Bajaj laser centre for
                                            dermatology, hostel and
                                            residential quarters at
                                            Shiksha Mandal – Bajaj
                                            Institute of Technology
                                            etc. (expenditure on
                                            above project is below
                                            H 2 crore per project)
                                                                                                                           Total         13.74

                                        Note:
                                        Information on CSR Registration number for the implementing agencies is not given in point 8(b) and(c), since the process of
                                        registration is yet to commence at MCA’s end or at initial stages.


                                (d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads			                                                    H 2.85 crore

                                (e) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable		                                             NIL

                                (f) Total amount spent for the financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e)                                        H 128.25 crore

                                (g) Excess amount for set off, if any
                                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                 Sr. No. Particulars                                                                                                             Amount



                                      (i)        Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)                                           126.91
                                   (ii)          Total amount spent for the financial year                                                                        128.25
                                  (iii)          Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]                                                             1.34
                                   (iv)          Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the
                                                 previous financial years, if any                                                                                    -
                                   (v)           Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]                                           1.34
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     90
                                                                                                                                 Directors’ Report




9. (a)      Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Not applicable

                                                                       Amount transferred to any fund
                                                                       specified under Schedule VII as
                                                                          per section 135(6), if any
                       Amount transferred to       Amount spent in the                                   Amount remaining to be
Sr.   Preceding        Unspent CSR Account under   reporting Financial Name of    Amount    Date of      spent in succeeding financial
No.   Financial Year   section 135(6) (in H )      Year (in H )        the Fund   (in H )   transfer     years (in H )



 1.   2017-18                      Nil                     Nil             -          -          -                     -
 2.   2018-19                      Nil                     Nil             -          -          -                     -
 3.   2019-20                      Nil                     Nil             -          -          -                     -


(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
    Not applicable

10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created
    or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year: Not applicable

11. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two percent                      Not applicable
    of the average net profit as per section 135(5)



Rahul Bajaj                                                Rajiv Bajaj
Chairman of CSR Committee                                  Managing Director and CEO

Pune: 29 April 2021
			




                                                                                                                                                     14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                               91
                     Directors’ Report




                                Annexure to Directors' Report
                                Remuneration Details under Rule 5 (1) of Companies (Appointment & Remuneration of Managerial
                                Personnel) Rules, 2014 (as amended) for the year ended 31 March 2021

                                                                                                                            Ratio of Remuneration
                                                                                                                             of director to Median
                                                                                                                                  Remuneration of                        % increase in the
                                Sr. No.       Name of Director/KMP                                                                     employees                            financial year


                                   (A)        Whole-time Directors/Managerial Personnel
                                              Rajiv Bajaj - Managing Director                                                                        602.90                                  1.78
                                              Pradeep Shrivastava - Executive Director                                                               123.53                                  5.77
                                              Rakesh Sharma - Executive Director                                                                     120.98                                 10.69
                                              Whole-time Directors in aggregate                                                                                                              3.54
                                   (B)        Non-executive Directors1
                                              Rahul Bajaj2                                                                                             85.35                                 0.00
                                              Madhur Bajaj                                                                                               1.86                                0.00
                                              Sanjiv Bajaj                                                                                               1.86                             -37.50
                                              Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                              1.86                             -28.57
                                              D J Balaji Rao                                                                                             5.94                                6.67
                                              Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                1.86                             -28.57
                                              Dr. Gita Piramal                                                                                           4.83                             -18.75
                                              Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                                         4.09                             -15.38
                                              Dr. Omkar Goswami                                                                                          2.23                             -25.00
                                              Anami N. Roy                                                                                               4.46                               71.43
                                              Pradip Shah                                                                                                1.86                             -28.57
                                              Ms. Lila Poonawalla                                                                                        1.86                             -28.57
                                              Abhinav Bindra3                                                                                            1.49                                0.00
                                   (C)        Key Managerial Personnel
                                              Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director                                                                                                                 1.78
                                              Soumen Ray, CFO                                                                                                                               26.07
                                              Dr. J Sridhar, Company Secretary                                                                                                              -6.46
                                   (D)        Remuneration of Median Employee (other than Whole-time Directors)                                                                              1.36
                                   (E)        Permanent employees as on 31 March 20214 : 7,693


                                1. (a) Remuneration payable to Non-executive directors is based on the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees attended by them as member during the year.
                                   (b) Remuneration to directors for the above purposes does not include sitting fees paid to them for attending board/committee meetings.
                                2. (a) Rahul Bajaj who was Executive Chairman until 31 March 2020 was appointed as non-executive director (Non-executive Chairman) w.e.f. 1 April 2020.
                                		 Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
                                   (b) As approved by the Board, Rahul Bajaj is being paid an additional commission of H 450 Lakhs, for certain additional services rendered by him during the year,
                                		 at the request of the management.
                                3. Abhinav Bindra was appointed as non-executive Director w.e.f. 20 May 2020. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
                                4. The term ‘Permanent Employees’ does not include trainees, probationers and contract employees.		


                                Notes on Disclosures under Rule 5
                                1. In FY 2020-21, the remuneration of median employee other than Whole-time Directors increased by
                                   1.36% over the previous year.
                                2. Increase in the remuneration of the Whole-time Directors/Managerial Personnel, which in the
                                   aggregate was 3.54% during the year under review, was given, keeping in view the trends of
                                   remuneration in industry.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                3. The remuneration paid as above was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.




                     92
                     Directors’ Report




                                Secretarial Audit Report (Form No. MR-3)
                                [Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies
                                (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]

                                For the financial year ended 31 March 2021.


                                To,
                                The Members,
                                Bajaj Auto Ltd.
                                (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
                                Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                Akurdi, Pune - 411035.

                                I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the
                                adherence to good corporate practices by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter called as ‘the Company’). Subject
                                to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by Covid-19 pandemic lock down
                                while taking review after completion of financial year, the Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner
                                that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and
                                expressing my opinion thereon.

                                Based on my verification of the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
                                maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and
                                authorised representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit and subject to letter annexed
                                herewith, I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the
                                financial year ended on 31 March 2021, complied with the applicable statutory provisions listed
                                hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance mechanism in
                                place subject to the reporting made hereinafter:

                                I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
                                by the Company for the financial year ended on 31 March 2021, according to the provisions of:

                                1) The Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and the rules made thereunder;

                                2) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;

                                3) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;

                                4) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to
                                   the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial
                                   Borrowings;

                                5) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of
                                   India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) to the extent applicable: -

                                    (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
                                        Regulations, 2011;

                                    (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;

                                    (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
                                        Regulations, 2018;

                                    (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;

                                    (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                    (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)
                                        Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;



                     94
                                                                                                    Directors’ Report




   (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;

   (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 and
       The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; and

   (i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
       Regulations, 2015.

6) Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 to the extent of product certification before production and from time to
   time primarily in respect of vehicles manufactured by the Company.

   I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:-

   (i) Secretarial Standards pursuant to section 118(10) of the Act, issued by the Institute of Company
       Secretaries of India.

   (ii) Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Ltd. and National Stock Exchange of
        India Ltd. as per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.

During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, rules,
regulations, guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above.

I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of
executive directors, non-executive directors and independent directors including a woman director.
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under review
were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.

Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings including Committees
thereof, along with agenda and detailed notes on agenda at least seven days in advance and a system
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the
meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting by the directors. The decisions at the meeting
were carried unanimously.

I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the
size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,
regulations and guidelines.

I further report that during the audit period, there was no other event/action having major bearing on
affairs of the Company.




                                                                                Shyamprasad D Limaye
Pune: 29 April 2021                                                            FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
UDIN: F001587C000204757
                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                  95
                     Directors’ Report




                                ANNEXURE

                                To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
                                Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                Akurdi, Pune - 411035.

                                My Secretarial Audit Report for Financial Year ended on 31st March 2021 of even date is to be read
                                along with this letter.

                                1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
                                   My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.

                                2. I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable
                                   assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was
                                   done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the
                                   process and practices, I followed, provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.

                                3. I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts
                                   of the Company.

                                4. Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws,
                                   rules and regulations and happening of event etc.

                                5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations,
                                   standards is the responsibility of management. My examination was limited to the verification of
                                   procedures on test basis.

                                6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of
                                   the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.


                                Pune: 29 April 2021

                                Shyamprasad D. Limaye
                                FCS No. 1587
                                C P No.: 572
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     96
                                                                                                       Directors’ Report




Independent Auditors’ Report on compliance with
the conditions of Corporate Governance
[As per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended]

To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Mumbai–Pune Road,
Akurdi, Pune - 411 035.

1. The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter the ‘Company’), contains
   details as specified in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub – regulation (2) of regulation 46
   and para C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
   and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (‘the Listing Regulations’) (‘Applicable
   criteria’) for the year ended 31 March 2021 as required by the Company for annual submission to
   the Stock exchange.

Management’s responsibility

2. The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of
   the Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and
   documents. This responsibility also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
   internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Governance Report.

3. The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the
   Company complies with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing
   Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.

Auditors’ responsibility

4. Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to provide a
   reasonable assurance in the form of an opinion whether, the Company has complied with the
   conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations referred to in
   paragraph 1 above.

5. We conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the
   Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes and the Guidance Note on
   Certification of Corporate Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
   (‘ICAI’). The Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes requires that we comply
   with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.

6. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control
   (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial
   Information and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.

7. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks
   associated in compliance of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria. Summary
   of procedures performed include:

   i.   Read and understood the information prepared by the Company and included in its Corporate
        Governance Report;

   ii. Obtained and verified that the composition of the Board of Directors with respect to executive
                                                                                                                           14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




       and non-executive directors has been met throughout the reporting period;

   iii. Obtained and read the Register of Directors as on 31 March 2021 and verified that atleast one
        independent woman director was on the Board of Directors throughout the year;




                                                                                                                     97
                     Directors’ Report




                                  iv. Obtained and read the minutes of the following committee meetings held 1 April 2020 to
                                		 31 March 2021:

                                		       (a) Board of Directors meetings;
                                		       (b) Audit Committee meetings;
                                		       (c) Annual General meeting (AGM);
                                		       (d) Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings;
                                		       (e) Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee meeting;
                                		       (f) Risk Management Committee meetings; and
                                		       (g) Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee meeting.

                                    v. Obtained necessary declarations from the directors of the Company.

                                    vi. Obtained and read the policy adopted by the Company for related party transactions.

                                    vii. Obtained the schedule of related party transactions during the year and balances at the
                                         year-end. Obtained and read the minutes of the Audit Committee meeting wherein such related
                                         party transactions have been pre-approved prior by the Audit Committee.

                                    viii. Performed necessary inquiries with the Management and also obtained necessary specific
                                          representations from Management.

                                8. The above-mentioned procedures include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the
                                   Corporate Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope of work under this report did not
                                   involve us performing audit tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the fairness or accuracy
                                   of any of the financial information or the financial statements of the Company taken as a whole.

                                Opinion

                                9. Based on the procedures performed by us, as referred in paragraph 7 above and according to the
                                   information and explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with
                                   the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations, as applicable for the
                                   year ended 31 March 2021, referred to in paragraph 4 above.

                                Other matters and Restriction on Use

                                10. This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or
                                    effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

                                11. This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of
                                    enabling it to comply with its obligations under the Listing Regulations with reference to compliance
                                    with the relevant regulations of Corporate Governance and should not be used by any other person
                                    or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care
                                    or for any other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may come
                                    without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this report for events and
                                    circumstances occurring after the date of this report.

                                For S R B C & CO LLP
                                Chartered Accountants
                                ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003




                                per Arvind Sethi
                                Partner
                                Membership Number: 89802
                                UDIN: 21089802AAAABB9863
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                Pune: 29 April 2021



                     98
                                                                                                      Directors’ Report




Declaration by Chief Executive Officer (MD)
[Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V (Part D) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]


I, Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO of Bajaj Auto Ltd. hereby declare that all the members of
Board of Directors and Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of
Board of Directors and Senior Management of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2021.

Rajiv Bajaj
Managing Director and CEO

Pune: 29 April 2021



Certificate by Practising Company Secretary
[Pursuant to Schedule V read with Regulation 34(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 (as amended)]

In the matter of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076) having its registered Office at
Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune - 411035.

On the basis of examination of the books, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
maintained by the Company and declarations made by the directors and explanations given by the
Company and subject to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by Covid-19
pandemic lock down;

I certify that the following persons are Directors of the Company (during 01/04/2020 to 31/03/2021)
and none of them have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of
companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.

Sr. No. Name of Director                                     DIN         Designation


   1    Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj                        00014529      Non-Executive Chairman
   2    Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                     00014593      Non-Executive Vice Chairman
   3    Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                        00018262      Managing Director
   4    Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                       00014615      Non-Executive Director
   5    Shekhar Bajaj                                      00089358      Non-Executive Director
   6    Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                      00028261      Non-Executive Director
   7    Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton                    00025254      Independent Director
   8    Gita Piramal                                       01080602      Independent Director
   9    Pradeep Shrivastava                                07464437      Executive Director
  10    Naushad Darius Forbes                              00630825      Independent Director
  11    Omkar Goswami                                      00004258      Independent Director
  12    Anami Narayan Prema Roy                            01361110      Independent Director
  13    Rakesh Sharma                                      08262670      Executive Director
  14    Pradip Panalal Shah                                00066242      Independent Director
  15    Lila Firoz Poonawalla                              00074392      Independent Director
                                                                                                                          14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




  16    Abhinav Bindra                                     00929250      Independent Director



                                                                                 Shyamprasad D Limaye
Pune: 29 April 2021                                                             FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
UDIN : F001587C000204812



                                                                                                                    99
STANDALONE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements
                     To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

                     Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements

                     Opinion

                     We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’), which comprise the
                     Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2021, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income,
                     the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial
                     statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as
                     ‘standalone financial statements’).

                     In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial
                     statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (the ‘Act’) in the manner so required and give
                     a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company
                     as at 31 March 2021, its profit including other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended
                     on that date.

                     Basis for opinion

                     We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
                     under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
                     for the audit of the standalone financial statement’ section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the
                     ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
                     our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
                     responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
                     sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone financial statements.

                     Key audit matters

                     Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone
                     financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2021. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
                     standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
                     matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

                     We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled
                     the responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of our
                     report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to
                     our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements. The results of our audit procedures,
                     including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying
                     standalone financial statements.

                     Key audit matters                                                How our audit addressed the key audit matter

                     Accounting for investments in open ended target maturity funds (‘Funds’)
                     (as described in Note 5B of the standalone financial statements)
                     The Company has investments aggregating H 2,320.75 crore         Our audit procedures included the following:
                     in open ended target maturity funds as at 31 March 2021.         l   Read the minutes of the Investment Committee meetings.
                     These investments are ‘subsequently measured at amortised
                                                                                      l   Performed test of controls on a sample basis on the operating
                     cost’ based on fulfilment of Solely Payments of Principal and
                                                                                          effectiveness of internal controls related to accounting of investments.
                     Interest (‘SPPI’) test and business model requirement as per
                     Ind AS 109 – ‘Financial instruments’.                            l   Read the terms and conditions of scheme information document/key
                                                                                          information memorandum of the funds invested by the Company.
                     These types of investments being significant during the year,
                                                                                      l   Tested on a sample basis, the investments underlying the funds to assess
                     were an area of significant audit attention and hence has been
                                                                                          whether those investments would satisfy the conditions of amortised cost
                     considered as a key audit matter.
                                                                                          accounting as per Ind AS 109.
                                                                                      l   Read and assessed the related disclosures included in the standalone
                                                                                          financial statements.
                                                                                      l   Obtained Management representations relating to accounting for the
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                                                          investments in the funds.

                     We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.



                     102
                                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Other information

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included
in the Chairman’s Letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not include the
standalone financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management for the standalone financial statements

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of
these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including other
comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates
that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that
were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

In preparing the standalone financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
Management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
standalone financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:

l   Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
    design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
    provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
    resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
    internal control.

l   Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
    circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company has
    adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
                                                                                                                                             14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                       103
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
                     l     Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
                           disclosures made by Management.

                     l     Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
                           obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s
                           ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in
                           our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
                           opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events
                           or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

                     l     Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures,
                           and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
                           fair presentation.

                     We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
                     and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

                     We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
                     regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
                     on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

                     From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
                     in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2021 and are therefore the key audit
                     matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
                     when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
                     consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

                     Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

                     1. As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2016 (the ‘Order’), issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
                        sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit we give in the Annexure 1 a statement on the matters specified in
                        paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.

                     2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:

                           (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
                               necessary for the purposes of our audit;

                           (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
                               examination of those books;

                           (c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow
                               Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;

                           (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
                               Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

                           (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2021 taken on record by the Board
                               of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2021 from being appointed as a director in terms of
                               Section 164 (2) of the Act;

                           (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements and the
                               operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in Annexure 2 to this report;

                           (g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2021 has been paid/provided by the Company to
                               its directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     104
                                                                                                        Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
   (h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
       (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the
       explanations given to us:

      i.   The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements
           – refer note 34 to the standalone financial statements;

      ii. The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
          foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – refer note 32(C) to the standalone
          financial statements;

      iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
           Fund by the Company.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 21089802AAAAAX8997
Pune: 29 April 2021




                                                                                                                                          14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                   105
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report
                     Referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report of
                     even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
                     1. (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of
                            property, plant and equipment.

                           (b) All property, plant and equipment have not been physically verified by the Management during the year but there is a regular
                               program of verification designed to cover all items in a phased manner over a period of three years which, in our opinion,
                               is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed
                               on such verification.

                           (c) According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the title deeds of immovable properties included in
                               property, plant and equipment; and investment property are held in the name of the Company except for buildings acquired
                               in the prior years having a gross block of H 15.02 crore and a net block of H 11.68 crore whose final registration is pending as
                               disclosed in note 2 to the standalone financial statements of the Company.

                     2. The inventory has been physically verified by Management during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of verification is
                        reasonable. No material discrepancies were noticed on such physical verification. Inventories lying with third parties have been
                        confirmed by them as at 31 March 2021 and no material discrepancies were noticed in respect of such confirmations.

                     3. According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not granted any loans, secured or unsecured to
                        companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or other parties covered in the register maintained under section 189 of the
                        Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(iii) (a), (b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to the
                        Company and hence not commented upon.

                     4. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there are no loans, guarantees, and securities given
                        in respect of which provisions of section 185 and 186 of the Act are applicable and hence not commented upon. In our opinion and
                        according to the information and explanations given to us, provisions of section 186 of the Act in respect of investments made
                        have been complied with by the Company.

                     5. The Company has not accepted any deposits within the meaning of Sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance
                        of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3 (v) of the Order are not applicable to the Company
                        and hence not commented upon.

                     6. To the best of our knowledge and as explained, the Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost records under
                        Section 148(1) of the Act for the products of the Company.

                     7. (a) The Company is regular in depositing with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues including provident fund, employees’
                            state insurance, income tax, customs duty, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues applicable to the Company.

                           (b) According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of provident fund,
                               employees’ state insurance, income tax, customs duty, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues applicable to the
                               Company, were outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.

                           (c) According to the records of the Company, the dues of income tax, sales tax, service tax, customs duty, excise duty, value
                               added tax, goods and service tax and cess on account of any dispute, are as follows:
                              Name of                                      Amount Period to which the                        Forum where the
                              the statute        Nature of dues        (J In Crore) amount relates                           dispute is pending


                                                 Excise Duty                327.48 Various years from 2010-11 to 2016-17     Supreme Court
                                                 Excise Duty                  1.43 Various years from 1985-86 to 2001-02 High Court
                              The Central
                              Excise Act, 1944   Excise Duty                  1.37 Various years from 1983-84 to 2014-15 Custom Excise and Service Tax
                                                                                                                         Appellate Tribunal
                                                 Excise Duty                  0.60 Various years from 1991-92 to 2017-18 Commissioner Appeals
                              Finance Act,       National Calamity          342.00 Various years from 2007-08 to 2014-15 Supreme Court
                              2001               Contingent Duty
                              Central Sales      Sales Tax                    0.99 Various years from 1996-97 to 2001-02 High Court
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                              Tax Act, 1956      Sales Tax                   80.96 Various years from 2001-02 to 2010-11 Appellate Tribunal
                              and Sales Tax
                              Act of various     Sales Tax                    0.25 Financial year 2009-10                    Appellate Authority
                              States             Sales Tax                   53.04 Various years from 1999-00 to 2016-17 Appellate Authority


                     106
                                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
       Name of                                              Amount Period to which the                                   Forum where the
       the statute           Nature of dues             (J In Crore) amount relates                                      dispute is pending


                             Income Tax                       502.01 Various years from 2007-08 to 2011-12 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
       The Income Tax
       Act, 1961             Income Tax                        87.32 Various years from 2012-13 to 2018-19 Commissioner of Income-Tax
                                                                                                           (Appeals)
       The Finance           Service Tax                       20.99 Various years from 2007-08 to 2011-12 Custom Excise and Service Tax
       Act, 1994                                                                                           Appellate Tribunal
       The Customs           Customs Duty                       3.85 Financial year 1984-85 and 1985-86    High Court
       Act, 1962             Customs Duty                       5.50 Various years from 1977-78 to 2013-14 Assistant Commissioner of Customs
                             Octroi Duty                        8.44 Various years from 1988-89 to 2004-05 High Court
       Octroi                                                        and from 2012-13 to 2016-17
                             Octroi Duty                        4.23 Various years from 1981-82 to 1988-89 District Court
       Note: The amounts disclosed above are net of the payments made to the respective authorities where the dispute is pending.


8. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given by Management, the Company has not defaulted in
   repayment of sales tax deferral loans to the Government. The Company did not have any outstanding loans or borrowing dues
   payable to a financial institution or bank or dues to debenture holders during the year.

9. According to the information and explanations given by Management, the Company has not raised any money by way of initial public
   offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) and term loans. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3 (ix) of the Order
   are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.

10. Based on the audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the financial statements and
    according to the information and explanations given by Management, we report that no fraud by the Company or no fraud on
    the Company by the officers and employees of the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.

11. According to the information and explanations given by Management, the managerial remuneration has been paid/provided in
    accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.

12. In our opinion, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(xii) of the Order are not applicable to
    the Company and hence not commented upon.

13. According to the information and explanations given by Management, transactions with related parties are in compliance with
    sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, as
    required by the applicable accounting standards.

14. According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the Balance Sheet, the Company
    has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the
    year under review. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(xiv) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not
    commented upon.

15. According to the information and explanations given by Management, the Company has not entered into any non-cash
    transactions with directors or persons connected with him as referred to in section 192 of the Act.

16. According to the information and explanations given by Management, the provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India
    Act, 1934 are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
                                                                                                                                                                 14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 21089802AAAAAX8997
Pune: 29 April 2021



                                                                                                                                                          107
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report
                     Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report
                     of even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

                     Report on the internal financial controls under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)

                     We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) as
                     of 31 March 2021 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.

                     Management’s responsibility for internal financial controls

                     The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control
                     over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
                     Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
                     of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls
                     that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
                     policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the
                     accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.

                     Auditors’ responsibility

                     Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial
                     statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls
                     Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the
                     extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require
                     that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate
                     internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements was established and maintained and if such
                     controls operated effectively in all material respects.

                     Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
                     reference to these standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with
                     reference to standalone financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to
                     these standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
                     operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment,
                     including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.

                     We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
                     Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements.

                     Meaning of internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements

                     A company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable
                     assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
                     with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements
                     includes those policies and procedures that

                     (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
                         the assets of the company;

                     (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
                         accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
                         only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and

                     (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
                         company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     108
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not
be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements to
future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to standalone financial statements may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial
statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were operating effectively as at
31 March 2021, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 21089802AAAAAX8997
Pune: 29 April 2021




                                                                                                                                            14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                      109
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Balance Sheet
                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                          As at 31 March
                     Particulars                           Note No.       2021               2020



                     ASSETS
                     Non-current assets
                     Property, plant and equipment            2        1,565.33        1,602.03
                     Capital work-in-progress                 2           15.98              46.54
                     Investment property                      3           52.30              53.90
                     Intangible assets                        4           47.30              43.09
                     Intangible assets under development      4               –              13.65
                     Investments in subsidiaries              5A       1,233.26        1,233.26
                     Financial assets
                           Investments                        5B      13,369.58        14,182.94
                           Trade receivables                  10              –                  –
                           Loans                              6           31.43              32.46
                           Other financial assets             7               –                3.13
                     Income tax assets (net)                             714.81             714.81
                     Other non-current assets                 8          325.08             250.53
                                                                      17,355.07      18,176.34
                     Current assets
                     Inventories                              9        1,493.89        1,063.50
                     Financial assets
                           Investments                        5B       8,028.11            2,779.75
                           Trade receivables                  10       2,716.85            1,725.10
                           Cash and cash equivalents          11         505.13             277.33
                           Other bank balances                12          22.23              30.94
                           Loans                              6            5.74                6.11
                           Other financial assets             7          223.53              77.56
                     Other current assets                     8         1,179.65            636.67
                                                                      14,175.13        6,596.96
                                                                      31,530.20      24,773.30
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     110
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.             2021               2020



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                 13               289.37             289.37
Other equity                                                                                         14            24,912.89        19,636.12
                                                                                                                   25,202.26       19,925.49


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                               15               121.46             125.59
Provisions                                                                                           16                  1.98             80.50
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                       17               522.14             346.38
Government grant                                                                                                       38.65              41.30
Other non-current liabilities                                                                        18                 0.50               0.83
                                                                                                                      684.73             594.60


Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
		       Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                            121.20              13.73
		       Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                     4,452.61            3,185.97
    Other financial liabilities                                                                      19               407.44             548.27
Other current liabilities                                                                            20               482.79             328.88
Provisions                                                                                           16               152.37             157.97
Government grant                                                                                                        2.65               2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                          24.15              15.74
                                                                                                                    5,643.21        4,253.21
                                                                                                                   31,530.20       24,773.30
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                   1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
As per our report of even date                                                                            On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                      Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                 Soumen Ray                                          Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                              Managing Director
Partner
                                                                                                                                                   14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                       Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 29 April 2021                                           Company Secretary                                     Vice Chairman




                                                                                                                                            111
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2021             2020



                     Revenue from contracts with customers                                                      27,132.90        29,111.54
                     Other operating revenue                                                                       608.18            807.11
                     Revenue from operations                                                         21         27,741.08        29,918.65
                     Other income                                                                    22          1,276.46         1,733.56
                     Total income                                                                              29,017.54        31,652.21


                     Expenses
                     Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              18,308.09        19,484.62
                     Purchase of traded goods                                                                    1,521.04         1,586.67
                     Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     23           (219.48)          (63.01)
                     Employee benefits expense                                                       24          1,285.96         1,389.21
                     Finance costs                                                                   25               6.66             3.16
                     Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           26            259.28           246.43
                     Other expenses                                                                  27          1,929.26         2,454.90
                     Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (12.27)          (29.97)
                     Total expenses                                                                            23,078.54        25,072.01


                     Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     5,939.00        6,580.20


                     Exceptional items                                                               28                  –                  –


                     Profit before tax                                                                           5,939.00        6,580.20


                     Tax expense
                           Current tax                                                                           1,348.10         1,547.26
                           Deferred tax                                                                             36.31           (67.04)
                     Total tax expense                                                               29          1,384.41         1,480.22


                     Profit for the year                                                                         4,554.59        5,099.98
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     112
                                                                                                Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                          Note No.              2021             2020



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                     16.33           (37.95)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                    (4.11)            4.76
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                   567.27          (550.03)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                  (65.71)           62.39
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                           276.65          (221.11)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                  (69.63)           62.09


Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)                                                     720.80         (679.85)


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                5,275.39        4,420.13


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                            30                  157.5            176.3
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                      1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
As per our report of even date                                                              On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                        Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                         Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                               Soumen Ray                               Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                           Chief Financial Officer                   Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                      Dr. J Sridhar                            Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 29 April 2021                                         Company Secretary                          Vice Chairman
                                                                                                                                      14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                              113
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Statement of Changes in Equity
                     A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                            Note No.                       2021                  2020


                     At the beginning of the year                                                                                                                     289.37                   289.37
                     Changes in equity share capital                                                                                                                          –                        –
                     At the end of the year                                                                                                     13                    289.37                  289.37

                     B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                          Reserves and surplus                              Other reserves
                                                                                                                     Cash flow   Costs of                    Share based
                                                                                   Note    General       Retained     hedging    hedging          FVTOCI       payments      Treasury        Total other
                     Particulars                                                   No.     reserve       earnings      reserve   reserve         reserve         reserve       shares             equity



                     Balance as at 31 March 2019                                   14      4,921.60     16,451.58       60.31     (17.47)            74.51            –                –      21,490.53


                     Profit for the year                                                         –       5,099.98           –          –                 –             –               –        5,099.98
                     Recognition of share based payments to employees                            –               –          –          –                 –         10.01               –           10.01
                     Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                     –         (33.19)     (54.68)   (104.34)        (487.64)              –               –        (679.85)
                     Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2020                 –       5,066.79      (54.68)   (104.34)        (487.64)          10.01               –        4,430.14


                     Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
                     Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                      510.00       (510.00)          –          –                 –             –               –               –
                     Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                          –               –          –          –                 –             –          (26.62)         (26.62)
                     Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2019                             –      (1,736.20)          –          –                 –             –               –       (1,736.20)
                     Tax on final dividend as above                                              –        (335.57)          –          –                 –             –               –        (335.57)
                     Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020                           –      (3,472.40)          –          –                 –             –               –       (3,472.40)
                     Tax on interim dividend as above                                            –        (713.76)          –          –                 –             –               –        (713.76)


                     Balance as at 31 March 2020                                   14      5,431.60     14,750.44         5.63   (121.81)        (413.13)          10.01          (26.62)     19,636.12


                     Profit for the year                                                         –       4,554.59           –          –                –             –                –        4,554.59
                     Recognition of share based payments to employees                            –               –          –          –                –           6.90               –            6.90
                     Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                     –          12.22      143.27      63.75           501.56             –                –          720.80
                     Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2021                 –       4,566.81      143.27      63.75           501.56           6.90               –        5,282.29


                     Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
                     Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                      456.00       (456.00)          –          –                –             –                –               –
                     Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                          –               –          –          –                –             –            (5.52)          (5.52)


                     Balance as at 31 March 2021                                   14      5,887.60     18,861.25      148.90     (58.06)            88.43         16.91      (32.14)         24,912.89
                     Summary of significant accounting policies followed
                     by the Company                                                 1



                     The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
                     As per our report of even date                                                                                                    On behalf of the Board of Directors


                     For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
                     Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                                      Chairman
                     ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                                  Soumen Ray                                                        Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                                             Chief Financial Officer                                             Managing Director
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     per Arvind Sethi
                     Partner
                     Membership Number: 89802                                                    Dr. J Sridhar                                                     Madhur Bajaj
                     Pune: 29 April 2021                                                       Company Secretary                                                   Vice Chairman



                     114
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                  2021                            2020



I.   Operating activities
        Profit before tax                                                                             5,939.00                        6,580.20
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
          i) Depreciation and amortisation                                               259.28                          246.43
          ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
              discarded and scrapped                                                      13.10                           13.70
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                   16.15                           22.01
         iv) Share based payment to employees                                              6.90                           10.01
          v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                             1.19                           (2.16)
         vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                    (6.01)                         (15.41)
         vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                      0.10                           (1.98)
        viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                      1.18                            1.06
         ix) Interest expense                                                              5.48                             2.10
                                                                                                        297.37                          275.76
        Less:
          i) Investment income included in above:
                 Interest income on fixed income securities                               65.77                           17.04
                 Interest income on fixed deposits                                        17.87                           28.90
                 Interest income on exchange traded funds                                 76.85                                  –
                 Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                842.51                           903.55
                 Profit on sale of other investments, net                                 15.74                           19.53
                 Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at
                 fair value through profit or loss                                      254.25                           462.70
                 Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                               –                          208.99
                 Dividend income on other strategic investments                               –                           25.38
                 Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of fixed
                 income securities                                                        (5.57)                          18.24
                                                                                       1,267.42                        1,684.33
          ii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back (net)                    –                            0.54
         iii) Government grants                                                            2.65                            2.65
         iv) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                              1.94                            5.28
                                                                                                     (1,272.01)                      (1,692.80)
                                                                                                      4,964.36                        5,163.16
        Change in assets and liabilities
          i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                        (430.39)                         (101.99)
          ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                                (1,001.89)                         828.53
         iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                            (561.50)                          409.28
         iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                         1,483.32                        (759.30)
                                                                                                       (510.46)                         376.52
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                              (0.35)                          (0.26)
        Net cash flow from operating activities before income-tax                                     4,453.55                        5,539.42
                                                                                                                                                    14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




              Income-tax paid                                                                        (1,339.69)                      (1,677.66)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                             3,113.86                       3,861.76


                                                                    Carried forward                    3,113.86                       3,861.76



                                                                                                                                            115
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                               2021                            2020



                                                                                     Brought forward                     3,113.86                      3,861.76
                     II. Investing activities
                              i) Investment in subsidiary                                                       –                          (10.54)
                              ii) Sale of investments                                                    3,555.72                        5,178.94
                             iii) Purchase of investments                                               (5,888.39)                      (3,517.96)
                             iv) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                        (351.28)                         166.96
                              v) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                                (5.52)                         (26.62)
                             vi) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                  8.71                          (13.51)
                             vii) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)          (241.04)                       (282.81)
                            viii) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment                             5.70                           16.74
                             ix) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                  (15.53)                         (13.93)
                                                                                                        (2,931.63)                       1,497.27
                              x) Investment income
                                   Interest income on fixed income securities                               65.77                           17.04
                                   Interest income on fixed deposits                                        17.87                           28.90
                                   Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                               –                          208.99
                                   Dividend income on other strategic investments                               –                           25.38
                                                                                                            83.64                          280.31
                             (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                                    (17.36)                         (23.04)
                                                                                                            66.28                          257.27


                             Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                        (2,865.35)                      1,754.54


                                                                                      Carried forward                     248.51                       5,616.30
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     116
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2021                            2020



                                                                   Brought forward                   248.51                         5,616.30
III. Financing activities
          i) Interest expense                                                          (5.48)                          (2.10)
         ii) Change in sales tax deferral liability due to assessment                  (5.31)                                 –
         iii) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                                (8.73)                      (5,195.10)
         iv) Corporate dividend tax paid                                                   –                       (1,049.31)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                           (19.52)                       (6,246.51)


        Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                      228.99                        (630.21)


        Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                       277.33                          905.38
        Add/(Less): Effects of exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                       (1.19)                           2.16
        Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                               505.13                          277.33



As per our report of even date                                                                         On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                   Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                    Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                 Soumen Ray                                        Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                            Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                     Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 29 April 2021                                           Company Secretary                                   Vice Chairman




                                                                                                                                                 14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                         117
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021

                     Corporate information

                     Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged
                     in the business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles,
                     electric two-wheelers etc. and parts thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets.
                     The registered office of the Company is located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

                     The standalone financial statements were approved for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of
                     the Company on 29 April 2021.

                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company

                     Basis of preparation

                     These standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under
                     section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,
                     as amended from time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

                     The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
                     (including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value or amortised book value.

                     The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
                     nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

                     All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
                     Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
                     liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition
                     of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle
                     as 12 months for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

                     Significant accounting policies

                     This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
                     have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

                     1     Use of estimates, judgments and assumptions

                           Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of these financial statements and disclosures made therein are based upon
                           Management’s evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements, which may differ
                           from the actual results at a subsequent date. The following are items which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to
                           estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than those originally assessed. Detailed information about each of these
                           estimates is included in the relevant notes together with information about basis of calculation for each affected line item in the
                           financial statements:

                           a)   Estimation of fair value of derivative instruments
                           b)   Estimation of variable considerations in revenue
                           c)   Provision for warranties
                           d)   Provision for employee benefits
                           e)   Provision for tax expenses
                           f)   Residual value and useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
                           g)   Valuation of investments
                           h)   Inventory provisioning
                           i)   Provision for bad and doubtful debts

                     2     Revenue from contracts with customers

                     Revenue is recognised when control of goods (vehicles or parts) and services have been transferred to the customer; at an amount
                     that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The timing of when
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     the company transfers the goods or provide services may differ from the timing of the customer’s payment. Amounts disclosed as
                     revenue are net of goods and service tax (GST).




                     118
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
The Company has generally concluded that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements, except for the agency services below
(in respect of freight), because it typically controls the goods or services before transferring them to the customer.

The disclosures of significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to revenue from contracts with customers
are provided below.

Sale of goods (vehicles or parts)

The Company has determined that our customers from the sale of goods are generally dealers and distributors. Transfer of control,
and therefore revenue recognition, generally corresponds to the date when the goods are made available to the customer, or when
the goods are released to the carrier responsible for transporting them to the customer in the following manner:

l   Domestic sales are recognised at the time of dispatch from the point of sale;

l   Export sales are recognised on the date when shipped on board as per terms of sale and are initially recorded at the relevant
    exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.

Generally, Company does not offer any specific credit period to its customer. All invoices are due immediately after billing.

The nature of contracts of the Company are such that no material part performance obligations would remain unfulfilled at the end of
any accounting period.

Variable consideration

If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount (like volume rebates/incentives, cash discounts etc.), the Company
estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer.
The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable
consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate of variable consideration for expected future volume rebates/incentives,
cash discounts etc. are made on the most likely amount method.

Consideration payable to the customer

Consideration payable to a customer includes cash amounts that the Company pays, or expects to pay, to the customer.
The consideration payable to a customer is accounted for as a reduction of the revenue.

Warranty obligations

The Company provides warranties for general repairs of defects as per terms of the contract with ultimate customers.
These warranties are considered as assurance type warranties and are accounted for under Ind AS 37- Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

Financing component

Generally, the Company receives short term advances from its customers. The Company applies the practical expedient for short-term
advances received from customers. That is, the promised amount of consideration is not adjusted for the effects of a significant
financing component if the period between the transfer of the promised good or service and the payment is one year or less.

Principal versus agent consideration in respect of freight

The Company, on behalf of its customers (dealers and distributors), dispatches goods to agreed locations for an agreed fee.
The Company has determined that the performance obligation of the Company is to arrange for those goods and services
(Company is an agent) to the dealers and hence the amount charged to the customer offset by freight charges paid to the freight
service providers is shown as revenue and disclosed as other operating income or other operating expenses, depending upon the
                                                                                                                                             14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




results of the offsetting.




                                                                                                                                       119
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                     Contract balances

                     Trade receivables

                     A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage of time is
                     required before payment of the consideration is due). Refer to accounting policy no. 6 ‘Financial instruments – initial measurement
                     and subsequent measurement’.

                     Contract liabilities

                     A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods to a customer for which the Company has received consideration (or an amount
                     of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company transfers goods or services
                     to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made, or the payment is due (whichever is earlier).
                     Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract.

                     Refund liabilities

                     A refund liability is the obligation to refund some or all the consideration received (or receivable) from the customer and is measured
                     at the amount the Company ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer. The Company updates its estimates of refund
                     liabilities (and the corresponding change in the transaction price) at the end of each reporting period.

                     3     Property, plant and equipment and depreciation/amortisation

                           A. Property, plant and equipment

                              i)   Capital work in progress, property, plant and equipment except land are carried at historical cost of acquisition,
                                   construction or manufacturing, as the case may be, less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Freehold land is
                                   carried at cost of acquisition.

                              ii) Cost represents all expenses directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition capable of operating
                                  in the manner intended. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment, if the recognition
                                  criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company
                                  depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost
                                  is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
                                  All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.

                              iii) Costs incurred to manufacture/construct property, plant and equipment are reduced from the total expense under the
                                   head ‘Expenses, included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

                              iv) Land and buildings acquired/constructed, not intended to be used in the operations of the Company and held for earning
                                  long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company, are categorised as
                                  investment property.

                              v) An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or
                                 when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the
                                 asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in
                                 the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is derecognised.

                              vi) The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at regular
                                  intervals and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.

                           B. Depreciation and amortisation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value

                              (a) Leasehold land

                                   Premium on leasehold land is amortised over the period of lease.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                              (b) Other tangible assets

                                   i.   a. Depreciation is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method to allocate the cost, net of residual value over
                                           the estimated useful lives of the assets.


                     120
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
       		      b. Where a significant component (in terms of cost) of an asset has an estimated economic useful life shorter than
                  that of its corresponding asset, the component is depreciated over its shorter life.

       		      c. The Company, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and Management estimate, depreciates
                  certain items of property, plant and equipment over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life
                  prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The Management believes that these estimated useful lives
                  are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used.

            ii. Assets which are depreciated over useful life/residual value different than those indicated by Schedule II are as under:
               Asset class                           As per Schedule II                        Useful life

               Aircraft                              20 years                                  10 years
               PDC Dies                              8 years                                   3 years

            iii. Depreciation on additions is being provided on pro rata basis from the month of such additions.

            iv. Depreciation on assets sold, discarded or demolished during the year is being provided up to the month in which such
                assets are sold, discarded or demolished.

4   Intangible assets

    A. Technical know-how acquired

       Technical know-how acquired is stated at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any.
       Acquired technical know-how is amortised equally over a period of estimated useful life.

    B. Technical know-how developed by the Company

       i)   Expenditure incurred by the Company on development of know-how researched, is recognised as an intangible asset,
            if and only if the future economic benefits attributable to the use of such know-how are probable to flow to the Company
            and the costs/expenditure can be measured reliably.

       ii) Costs incurred to develop an intangible asset are reduced from total expenses and disclosed under the head ‘Expenses,
           included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

       iii) The cost of technical know-how developed is amortised equally over its estimated useful life i.e. generally three years
            from the date of commencement of commercial production.

    C. Research and development costs

       Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project are recognised as an intangible
       asset when the Company can demonstrate:

       l    The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale

       l    Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset

       l    How the asset will generate future economic benefits

       l    The availability of resources to complete the asset

       l    The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development
                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




       Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated
       amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete, and the
       asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation expense is recognised in the
       Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset.

       During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.



                                                                                                                                        121
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                     5     Investment property

                     Property which is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company,
                     is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
                     Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits
                     associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Repairs and
                     maintenance costs are expensed when incurred.

                     Depreciation on investment property is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method over the estimated useful lives. Useful life
                     of assets, as assessed by the Management, corresponds to those prescribed by Schedule II- Part ‘C’ of the Companies Act, 2013.

                     6     Investments and financial assets

                           A. Investment in subsidiaries

                              Interest in subsidiaries are recognised at cost. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the said investments.

                              The Company assesses at the end of each reporting period, if there are any indications that the said investments may be
                              impaired. If so, the Company estimates the recoverable value/amount of the investment and provides for impairment,
                              if any i.e. the deficit in the recoverable value over cost.

                           B. Other investments and financial assets

                              i.   Classification

                                   The company classifies its financial assets at initial recognition in the following measurement categories:

                                   l   those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income, or through profit or
                                       loss), and

                                   l   those to be measured at amortised cost.

                                   The classification is done depending upon the Company’s business model for managing the financial assets and the
                                   contractual terms of the cash flows.

                                   For assets classified as ‘measured at fair value’, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other
                                   comprehensive income, as elected. For assets classified as ‘measured at amortised cost’, this will depend on the business
                                   model and contractual terms of the cash flows.

                              ii. Measurement

                                   Initial Measurement

                                   Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other
                                   comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The classification of financial assets at initial
                                   recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Company’s business model for
                                   managing them.

                                   At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value including, in the case of ‘a financial asset
                                   not at FVTPL’, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of
                                   financial assets carried at ‘FVTPL’ are expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss, when incurred.

                                   Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Company has applied the
                                   practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer accounting policy no. 2
                                   ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     122
                                                                                                       Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
        For a financial asset to be classified and subsequently measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI (excluding equity
        instruments which are measured at FVTOCI), it needs to give rise to cash flows that are ‘solely payments of principal and
        interest (SPPI)’ on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at
        an instrument level. Financial assets with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified and measured at FVTPL, irrespective
        of the business model.

        The Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets to generate
        cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling
        the financial assets, or both.

        Subsequent Measurement

        Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on the Company’s business model for managing the financial asset
        and the cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Company
        classifies its financial instruments:

        Subsequently measured at amortised cost:

        A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:

        a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and

        b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
           interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.

        Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent SPPI are
        measured at amortised cost e.g. debentures, bonds, fixed maturity plans, trade receivables etc.

        This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently
        measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into
        account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. Interest income
        from trade receivables is included in other operating income in the Statement of Profit and Loss; whilst interest
        income from the remaining financial assets is included in other income in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The
        losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. A gain or loss on a financial asset
        that is subsequently measured at amortised cost is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is
        derecognised or impaired.

        In case of fixed maturity plans (FMP), they are measured at amortised cost, if the Company intends to hold the FMPs
        to maturity. Further, the Company applies amortised cost for those FMPs where the Company is able to demonstrate
        that the underlying instruments in the portfolio would fulfill the SPPI test and the churn in the underlying portfolio is
        negligible. These conditions are assessed at each Balance Sheet date. If these conditions are not fulfilled, then FMPs
        are valued at FVTPL.

        The Company intends to hold its investment in open ended target maturity funds (i.e. exchange traded funds/ETF) till
        maturity. It may be noted that these funds have a pre-determined maturity date. These funds follow a passive buy and
        hold strategy; in which the existing underlying investment bonds are expected to be held till maturity unless sold for
        meeting redemptions or rebalancing requirements as stated in the scheme document. In our view, such strategy mitigates
        intermittent price volatility in open ended target maturity fund’s underlying investments; and investors who remain
        invested until maturity are expected to mitigate the market/volatility risk to a large extent. These funds can invest only
        in plain vanilla INR bonds with fixed coupon and maturity; and cannot invest in floating rate bonds. Based on this, the
        Company believes that the investments in open ended target maturity funds meet the requirements of SPPI test as per the
        requirements of Ind AS 109.

        Subsequently measured at FVTOCI:
                                                                                                                                          14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




        All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading,
        if any, are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company may make an irrevocable election to
        present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an
        instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.




                                                                                                                                    123
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                                Equity instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair
                                value. Fair value movements are recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI). If the Company decides to classify
                                an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, are recognised
                                in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to Statement of profit and loss, even on sale of investment.
                                However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.

                                Subsequently measured at FVTPL:

                                Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost and FVTOCI are measured at fair value through profit
                                or loss e.g. investments in mutual funds. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at fair value
                                through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other
                                gains/(losses) in the period in which it arises.

                                In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVTOCI
                                criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or
                                recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has designated investments in mutual
                                funds (other than FMP) as at FVTPL. Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with
                                all changes recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

                            iii. Impairment of financial assets

                                The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its financial assets carried
                                at amortised cost for e.g., debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balances; and lease receivables. The
                                impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and if so, assess
                                the need to provide for the same in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

                                The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables and all
                                lease receivables.

                                The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises
                                impairment loss allowance based on lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) at each reporting date, right from its initial
                                recognition.

                                For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines whether there
                                has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly,
                                12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL
                                is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant
                                increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on
                                12-month ECL.

                                Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial
                                instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within
                                12 months after the reporting date.

                                ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract and
                                all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e. all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When estimating
                                the cash flows, an entity is required to consider all contractual terms of the financial instrument over the expected life of
                                the financial instrument.

                                ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised during the period is recognised as income/expense in the
                                Statement of Profit and Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the Statement of Profit and
                                Loss. The Balance Sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below:

                                l   Financial assets measured at amortised cost, revenue receivables and lease receivables: ECL is presented as an
                                    allowance, i.e. as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the Balance Sheet. The allowance reduces
                                    the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance
                                    from the gross carrying amount.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments based on shared
                                credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in
                                credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.


                     124
                                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
           For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, the Company applies the low credit risk simplification. At every reporting
           date, the Company evaluates whether the debt instrument is considered to have low credit risk using all reasonable and
           supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. In making that evaluation, the Company reassesses
           the internal credit rating of the debt instrument.

           However, in certain cases, the Company may also consider a financial asset to be in default when internal or external
           information indicates that the Company is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking
           into account any credit enhancements held by the Company. A financial asset is written off when there is no reasonable
           expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.

       iv. Derecognition of financial assets

           A financial asset is derecognised only when Company has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the financial
           asset or the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired. Where the entity has transferred an asset,
           the Company evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
           In such cases, the financial asset is derecognised.

       v. Reclassification of financial assets

           The Company determines classification of financial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition,
           no reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial assets
           which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is a change in the business model for managing those
           assets. Changes to the business model are expected to be infrequent. The Company’s senior management determines
           change in the business model as a result of external or internal changes which are significant to the Company’s
           operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. A change in the business model occurs when the Company
           either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations. If the Company reclassifies financial
           assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date which is the first day of the immediately
           next reporting period following the change in business model. The Company does not restate any previously recognised
           gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest.

           The Company applies amortised cost, where it has ability to demonstrate that the underlying instruments in the portfolio
           fulfill the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) test and the churn in the portfolio is negligible.

7   Derivative and hedging activities

    The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as range forward and par forward currency contracts to hedge its
    foreign currency risks. Such derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date at which the derivative
    contract is entered and are subsequently re-measured at fair value as at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for
    subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature
    of the item being hedged, and the type of hedge relationship designated.

    The company documents its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. In terms
    thereof, the company designates their derivatives as hedges of foreign exchange risks associated with the cash flow of highly
    probable forecast transactions (viz. export sales).

    The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the
    hedged item is more than 12 months; it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item
    is less than or equal to 12 months.

    Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting –

    The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised
    in the other comprehensive income in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of
    the hedged item on a present value basis from the inception of the hedge. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is
                                                                                                                                              14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




    recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss, within other gains/(losses).

    For hedge accounting, hedges are classified as Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is
    either attributable to a risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign
    currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.




                                                                                                                                        125
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                           When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates them in entirety as the hedging
                           instrument. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value for the effective portion of cash flow hedges is recognised
                           in OCI and later reclassified to profit or loss when the hedge item affects profit or loss.

                           Where option contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates intrinsic value of the option contract as
                           hedging instrument.

                           Gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in intrinsic value of the option contract are recognised in the
                           cash flow hedging reserve within equity. The changes in time value of the option contracts that relate to the hedged items are
                           recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’ within equity.

                           When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any
                           cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a forecast
                           transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to
                           the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a hedging instrument is unexercised and expires, the cumulative gain or loss is reversed
                           within equity with the corresponding effect to the hedge receivable/payable.

                           If the hedge ratio for risk management is no longer optimal, but risk management objectives remain unchanged and hedge
                           continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationships are re-balanced so that the hedge ratio aligns. Consequently,
                           hedge ineffectiveness is computed and accounted for in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

                     8     Impairment of non-financial assets

                           Assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
                           recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
                           amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of
                           assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are
                           largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets (cash-generating units).

                     9     Foreign currency transactions

                           i)   Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which
                                the Company operates (‘the functional currency’).

                           ii) On initial recognition, all foreign currency transactions are recorded at the foreign exchange rate on the date of the
                               transaction.

                           iii) Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency outstanding at the close of the financial year are revalorised at the
                                appropriate exchange rates prevailing at the close of the year.

                           iv) The gain or loss on decrease/increase in reporting currency due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, in case of monetary
                               assets and liabilities in foreign currency, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

                           v) Fixed assets purchased at liaison offices in foreign exchange are recorded at their historical cost computed with reference to
                              the average rate of foreign exchange remitted to the liaison office.

                           vi) Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
                               rates at the dates of the initial transactions.

                           vii) In determining the spot exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) on the
                                derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to advance consideration, the date of the transaction
                                is the date on which the Company initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the
                                advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the Company determines the transaction date
                                for each payment or receipt of advance consideration.

                     10 Inventories
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                           Cost of inventories have been computed to include all costs of purchases (including materials), cost of conversion and other costs
                           incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.




                     126
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   i)   Finished stocks of vehicles and auto spare parts and stocks of work-in-progress are valued at cost of manufacturing or net
        realisable value whichever is lower. Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.

   ii) Stores, packing materials and tools are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
       whichever is lower.

   iii) Raw materials and components are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
        whichever is lower.

   iv) Inventory of machinery spares and maintenance materials not being material are expensed in the year of purchase.

   v) Goods in transit are stated at actual cost incurred up to the date of Balance Sheet.

   Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the
   estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

11 Employee benefits

   a) Privilege leave entitlements

        Privilege leave entitlements are recognised as a liability, in the calendar year of rendering of service, as per the rules of the
        Company. As accumulated leave can be availed and/or encashed at any time during the tenure of employment, subject to
        terms and conditions of the scheme, the liability is recognised based on an independent actuarial valuation.

        They are therefore measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided
        by employees up to the end of the reporting period using the projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted
        using the market yields at the end of the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related
        obligation. Remeasurements as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised
        in Statement of Profit and Loss.

   b) Gratuity

        Payment for present liability of future payment of gratuity is being made to approved gratuity fund, which fully covers the
        same under Cash Accumulation Policy and Debt fund of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Bajaj Allianz Life
        Insurance Company Ltd. (BALIC). However, any deficit in plan assets managed by LIC and BALIC as compared to the liability
        based on an independent actuarial valuation is recognised as a liability.

        The liability or asset recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value of the
        defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation
        is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method in conformity with the principles and manner of
        computation specified in Ind AS 19.

        Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest
        on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined
        benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the Balance Sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings
        through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.

        The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
        value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

   c) Superannuation

        Defined contribution to superannuation fund is being made as per the scheme of the Company and recognised as expense as
        and when due.
                                                                                                                                                 14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




   d) Provident fund contributions are made to Company’s Provident Fund Trust. The contributions are accounted for as defined
      benefit plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Deficits, if any, of the fund
      as compared to liability based on an independent actuarial valuation is to be additionally contributed by the Company and
      hence recognised as a liability.

   e) Defined contribution to Employees Pension Scheme 1995 is made to Government Provident Fund Authority and recognised
      as expense as and when due.

                                                                                                                                           127
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                     12 Taxation

                           a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
                              authorities, in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961; and the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards prescribed
                              therein. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the
                              reporting date.

                           b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other
                              comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI
                              or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
                              applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

                           c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
                              liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
                              enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
                              asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

                              Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
                              future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

                              The Company offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off
                              current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes
                              levied by the same taxation authority which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise
                              the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities
                              or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.

                     13 Provisions and contingent liabilities

                           The Company creates a provision when there is present obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow
                           of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
                           amount of the obligation. A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
                           that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of resources. When the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no
                           provision or disclosure is made.

                           If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when
                           appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
                           recognised as a finance cost.

                     14 Leases including investment properties

                           The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract conveys the right
                           to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

                           As a lessee

                           a) Right of use assets

                              The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e. the date the underlying asset is
                              available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and
                              adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
                              recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease
                              incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the
                              estimated useful lives of the assets.

                              If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise of a
                              purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                              The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to note 1 clause 8 for accounting policies on impairment of
                              non-financial assets.




                     128
                                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   b) Lease liabilities

      At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease
      payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments primarily comprise of fixed payments.

      In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease
      commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement
      date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made.

   c) Short-term leases and leases of low value assets

      The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of office spaces and certain
      equipment (i.e. those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a
      purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of office equipment that are
      considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense
      on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

      As a lessor

      Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset
      are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Initial
      direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset
      and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.

15 Government grant

   Grants from the Government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be
   received, and the Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to income are deferred and
   recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and
   presented within other operating revenue.

   Government grants in the nature of export incentives are accounted for in the period of export of goods if the entitlements can be
   estimated with reasonable accuracy and conditions precedent to claim are reasonably expected to be fulfilled.

   When loans or similar assistance are provided by Governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current
   applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable interest is regarded as a Government grant. The loan or assistance is initially
   recognised and measured at fair value and the Government grant is measured as the difference between the initial carrying value
   of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy applicable to financial
   liabilities.

16 Dividends

   Provision is made for any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity, on or
   before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.

17 Cash and cash equivalents

   For presentation in the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, other short-term, highly
   liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
   which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

18 Earnings per share

   Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the
                                                                                                                                             14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




   weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s
   earnings per share is the net profit for the period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period
   and all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that
   have changed the number of equity shares outstanding without a corresponding change in resources.

   For calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted
   average number of shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.


                                                                                                                                       129
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                     19 Segment reporting

                           Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Core Management Committee
                           which includes the Managing Director who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Core Management Committee examines
                           performance both from a product as well as from a geographical perspective and has identified two operative reportable
                           segments from which significant risks and rewards are derived viz. Automotive business and Investments.

                     20 Fair value measurement

                           The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each Balance Sheet date. Fair value is the
                           price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
                           the measurement date.

                           The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes
                           place either:

                           l   In the principal market for the asset or liability, or

                           l   In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.

                           The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.

                           The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the
                           asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their best economic interest.

                           A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits
                           by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest
                           and best use.

                           The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to
                           measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.

                           All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair
                           value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:

                           l   Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities

                           l   Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or
                               indirectly observable

                           l   Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is
                               unobservable.

                           The Company has set policies and procedures for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurement of financial assets,
                           which includes valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.

                           For fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities based on the nature, characteristics and
                           risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.

                           This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes.

                           l   Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions (note 1 clause 1)

                           l   Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy (note 31)

                           l   Investment properties (note 3)
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                           l   Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) (note 31)




                     130
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
21 Other Income

   a) Dividends

      Dividends are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss only when the right to receive payment is established, and it
      is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company and that the amount of the
      dividend can be measured reliably.

   b) Other income

      The Company recognises income on accrual basis. However, where the ultimate collection of the same lacks reasonable
      certainty, revenue recognition is postponed to the extent revenue is reasonably certain and can be reliably measured.

22 Employee stock options

   Certain employees (including senior executives) of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the form of employee stock
   options (ESOP).

   The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate
   valuation model. Further details are given in note 41.

   That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in share-based payment reserve in equity, over the period in
   which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. The cumulative expense recognised
   for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has
   expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or credit in
   the Statement of Profit and Loss for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and
   end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.

   Service and non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of
   ESOPs, but the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity
   instruments that will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions are reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other
   conditions attached to an ESOP, but without an associated service requirement, are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
   Non-vesting conditions are reflected in the fair value of an ESOP and lead to an immediate expensing of an ESOP unless there
   are also service and/or performance conditions.

   No expense is recognised for ESOPs that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and/or service conditions have
   not been met. Where ESOPs include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of
   whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions
   are satisfied.

   The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.

23 Treasury shares

   The Company has created an ESOP Trust (the ‘Trust’) for providing share-based payment to its employees. The Company uses the
   Trust as a vehicle for distributing shares to employees under the Employee Stock Option Scheme. The Trust purchase shares of
   the Company from the market, for giving shares to employees. The Company treats Trust as its extension and shares held by the
   Trust are treated as treasury shares.

   Own equity instruments that are re-acquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from other equity. No gain or
   loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity
   instruments. Share options exercised during the reporting period are settled with treasury shares.

24 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
                                                                                                                                            14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




   New and amended standards

   Several amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in March 2021, but do not have an impact on the standalone
   financial statements of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standards or amendments that have been issued
   but are not yet effective.



                                                                                                                                     131
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     2 Property, plant and equipment
                       Current year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 Gross block (a)                                               Depreciation                           Net block
                                                                                          As at                                                        As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                                                        1 April                                 Deductions/        31 March     1 April                       For the    31 March       31 March
                     Particulars                                                          2020              Additions           adjustments            2021       2020    Deductions          year (d)       2021           2021



                     Land freehold                                                        19.97                         –                     –        19.97         –            –                 –           –           19.97
                     Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                                 47.93                         –                   0.65      47.28          –            –                 –           –           47.28
                     Buildings (b) (c)                                                   940.49                   35.51                       –      976.00     338.37            –             22.42      360.79          615.21
                     Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                     17.39                     0.35                      –        17.74      13.54           –              0.76       14.30            3.44
                     Plant and machinery                                              1,361.60                    24.99                    18.06   1,368.53    1,016.80        13.37            60.82    1,064.25         304.28
                     Computers and IT Equipment                                           81.58                     2.72                    0.29      84.01       73.90         0.29             4.71       78.32            5.69
                     Dies and jigs                                                       573.44                   98.30                    10.56      661.18    342.18          8.86            68.65      401.97          259.21
                     Electric installations                                               74.29                     0.01                      –       74.30       70.04           –              1.40       71.44            2.86
                     Factory equipment                                                   414.61                   26.03                     1.36     439.28     218.07          0.95            26.90      244.02          195.26
                     Furniture                                                            42.16                     2.51                    0.32      44.35       25.96         0.31             3.04       28.69           15.66
                     Office equipment                                                     45.65                     7.91                    0.43      53.13       36.46         0.43             2.66       38.69           14.44
                     Electric fittings                                                    33.16                     3.80                    0.15      36.81       25.02         0.15             1.82       26.69           10.12
                     Vehicles and aircraft                                               369.01                   10.74                    23.25     356.50     258.91         13.20            38.88      284.59           71.91
                     Total                                                            4,021.28                  212.87                     55.07   4,179.08    2,419.25        37.56          232.06     2,613.75        1,565.33


                     Capital work-in-progress                                             46.54                   14.45                    45.01      15.98          –            –                 –           –           15.98
                     (a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
                     (b) Includes premises on ownership basis in Co-operative Society H 25.26 crore and cost of shares therein H 5,250.
                     (c) Includes premises purchased, pending registration amounting to H 15.02 crore.
                     (d) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.




                             Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                Gross block (a)                                                Depreciation                          Net block
                                                                                          As at                                                        As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                                                        1 April                                 Deductions/        31 March     1 April                       For the    31 March       31 March
                     Particulars                                                          2019              Additions           adjustments            2020       2019    Deductions          year (d)       2020           2020



                     Land freehold                                                        19.97                         –                     –       19.97          –            –                 –           –           19.97
                     Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                                 52.39                         –                   4.46      47.93          –            –                 –           –           47.93
                     Buildings (b) (c)                                                   932.10                     8.39                      –      940.49     312.94            –             25.43      338.37          602.12
                     Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                     17.36                     0.03                      –       17.39       12.76           –              0.78       13.54            3.85
                     Plant and machinery                                              1,364.15                    27.22                    29.77    1,361.60    978.74         23.42            61.48     1,016.80         344.80
                     Computers and IT Equipment                                           77.50                     4.11                    0.03      81.58       68.27         0.03             5.66       73.90            7.68
                     Dies and jigs                                                       778.38                   73.30                   278.24     573.44     554.77        273.54            60.95      342.18          231.26
                     Electric installations                                               74.29                         –                     –       74.29       68.53           –              1.51       70.04            4.25
                     Factory equipment                                                   401.00                   22.89                     9.28     414.61     199.64          7.50            25.93      218.07          196.54
                     Furniture                                                            40.83                     1.55                    0.22      42.16       22.80         0.17             3.33       25.96           16.20
                     Office equipment                                                     45.26                     2.46                    2.07      45.65       35.43         2.05             3.08       36.46            9.19
                     Electric fittings                                                    31.81                     1.50                    0.15      33.16       23.43         0.14             1.73       25.02            8.14
                     Vehicles and aircraft                                               361.31                   28.46                    20.76     369.01     230.35         12.32            40.88      258.91          110.10
                     Total                                                            4,196.35                  169.91                    344.98   4,021.28    2,507.66      319.17           230.76     2,419.25        1,602.03


                     Capital work-in-progress                                             11.54                   42.78                     7.78      46.54          –            –                 –           –           46.54
                     (a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
                     (b) Includes premises on ownership basis in Co-operative Society H 25.26 crore and cost of shares therein H 5,250.
                     (c) Includes premises purchased, pending registration amounting to H 15.02 crore.
                     (d) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     132
                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2021             2020



Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                           69.66             69.66
Additions                                                                                                                      –                  –
Closing balance                                                                                                           69.66             69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                            15.76            14.16
Depreciation charge                                                                                                         1.60             1.60
Closing balance                                                                                                            17.36            15.76
Net carrying amount                                                                                                       52.30             53.90

i)   Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2021             2020



Rental income                                                                                                             14.23             15.73
Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income                                                      (0.97)            (0.20)
Direct operating expenses from property that did not generate rental income                                                    –                  –
Profit from investment properties before depreciation                                                                     13.26             15.53
Depreciation                                                                                                              (1.60)            (1.60)
Profit from investment property                                                                                            11.66            13.93

ii) Contractual obligations
     The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property. There are no contractual obligations to purchase,
     construct or develop investment property as at the year end.

iii) Leasing arrangements
     Investment property is leased out to various tenants under operating leases. Disclosure on future rent receivable is included in note 39.

iv) Fair value
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2021             2020



Investment property                                                                                                      205.55            201.20

Estimation of fair value

The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar properties. Since investment properties leased out by the
                                                                                                                                                      14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Company are cancellable and non-cancellable leases, the market rate for sale/purchase of such premises are representative of fair values.
Company’s investment properties are at a location where active market is available for similar kind of properties. Hence, fair value is
ascertained on the basis of market rates prevailing for similar properties in those location determined by an independent registered valuer
and consequently classified as a level 2 valuation.




                                                                                                                                              133
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     4 Intangible assets
                       Current year
                                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                            Gross block                                     Amortisation                         Net block
                                                               As at                                  As at     As at                                    As at          As at
                                                             1 April               Deductions/    31 March    1 April                      For the   31 March       31 March
                     Particulars                               2020    Additions   adjustments        2021      2020    Deductions           year        2021           2021



                     Intangible assets
                     Technical know-how developed/acquired    66.38       29.18              –       95.56     23.29            –           24.97       48.26           47.30


                     Total intangible assets                  66.38       29.18              –       95.56     23.29            –           24.97       48.26          47.30


                     Intangible assets under development      13.65       15.53           29.18          –         –            –               –           –                –




                           Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                            Gross block                                     Amortisation                         Net block
                                                               As at                                  As at     As at                                    As at          As at
                                                             1 April               Deductions/    31 March    1 April                      For the   31 March       31 March
                     Particulars                               2019    Additions   adjustments        2020      2019    Deductions           year        2020           2020



                     Intangible assets
                     Technical know-how developed/acquired    29.62       36.76              –       66.38      9.87            –           13.42       23.29           43.09


                     Total intangible assets                  29.62       36.76              –       66.38      9.87            –           13.42       23.29          43.09


                     Intangible assets under development      36.48       13.93           36.76      13.65         –            –               –           –          13.65
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     134
                                                                                                                    Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                       Non-current investments            Current investments
                                                                                            As at 31 March                    As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                  2021              2020           2021             2020



(A) Investment in subsidiaries
   Investment carried at cost
       In subsidiaries
              Unquoted:
              1,980,000 (1,980,000) Equity Shares of Euro 100 each in
                        Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV Amsterdam,
                        Netherlands                                                       1,218.72           1,218.72             –                 –
               449,997 (449,997) Equity Shares of Thai Baht 100 each in
                       Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                            10.54             10.54              –                 –
               411,875 (411,875) Equity Shares of USD 3 each in
                       PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                                6.17               6.17             –                 –
                          Less: Provision for diminution in the value
                          of investment                                                       2.17               2.17             –                 –
                                                                                              4.00              4.00              –                 –


Total (A)                                                                                 1,233.26       1,233.26                 –                 –


(B) Other Investments
   Investment carried at fair value through OCI
       In Equities:
              Quoted:
              3,500,000 (3,500,000) Equity Shares of H 10 each in
                        Bajaj Holdings & Investments Ltd.                                 1,152.57            629.49              –                 –
              Unquoted:
                 14,760 (13,865) Compulsorily Convertible Preference
                        Shares (CCPS) of H 100 each in Yulu Bikes Private Ltd.              121.66             71.50              –                 –
                          Fair value                                                      1,274.23            700.99              –                 –


   Investment carried at amortised cost
       In Bonds & debentures:
              Quoted:
                   500 (–) 8.30% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                       of H 1,000,000 each                                                   54.18                 –              –                 –
                   300 (–) 8.11% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                       of H 1,000,000 each                                                  32.54                  –              –                 –
                  1,350 (–) 5.85% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                                135.07                  –              –                 –
                  1,500 (–) 6.50% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                                153.65                  –              –                 –
                                                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                   500 (–) 8.18% National Bank for Agriculture and
                       Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                                54.40                  –              –                 –
                                                                        Carried over       429.84                  –              –                 –
                                                                        Carried over      1,274.23            700.99              –                 –




                                                                                                                                                 135
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                            Non-current investments        Current investments
                                                                                                                 As at 31 March               As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                  2021             2020        2021            2020



                                                                                           Brought over        1,274.23           700.99          –                 –
                            In Bonds & debentures: (Contd.)
                                   Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                                           Brought over         429.84                –           –                 –
                                       1,750 (–) 8.24% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                    192.37                –           –                 –
                                       4,550 (–) 7.43% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                    482.41                –           –                 –
                                         700 (–) 7.10% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                     73.38                –           –                 –
                                         600 (–) 6.87% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                      61.33               –           –                 –
                                       2,800 (–) 6.39% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                     277.15               –           –                 –
                                         750 (–) 6.42% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                      73.18               –           –                 –
                                         250 (–) 6.44% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                     24.48                –           –                 –
                                       1,900 (–) 6.49% National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
                                             Development of H 1,000,000 each                                     189.16               –           –                 –
                                             – (350,000) 7.93% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd. -
                                               Tax Free of H 1,000 each                                              –            36.38           –                 –
                                             – (200) 7.21% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd. -
                                               Tax Free of H 1,000,000 each                                          –             20.68          –                 –
                                             – (50,271) 8.00% Indian Railway Finance
                                               Corporation Ltd. - Tax Free of H 1,000 each                           –              5.22          –                 –
                                             – (820,000) 7.18% Indian Railway Finance
                                               Corporation Ltd. - Tax Free of H 1,000 each                           –             85.02          –                 –
                                             – (575) 7.55% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                                               Tax Free of H 100,000 each                                            –              5.90          –                 –
                                             – (1,000) 7.51% Power Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                                               Tax Free of H 100,000 each                                            –             10.25          –                 –
                                             – (650,000) 8.20% Power Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                                               Tax Free of H 1,000 each                                              –             67.68          –                 –
                                               Amortised cost                                                  1,803.30           231.13          –                 –


                            In Government bonds & securities:
                                   Quoted:
                                   5,000,000 (–) 8.03% Gujarat State Development Loan
                                             of H 100 each                                                       54.92                –           –                 –
                               26,500,000 (–) 7.89% Gujarat State Development Loan
                                          of H 100 each                                                         290.00                –           –                 –
                               10,000,000 (–) 6.49% Gujarat State Development Loan
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                          of H 100 each                                                         100.37                –           –                 –
                                                                                             Carried over       445.29                –           –                 –
                                                                                             Carried over      3,077.53           932.12          –                 –



                     136
                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                  Non-current investments            Current investments
                                                                                       As at 31 March                    As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                             2021              2020           2021              2020



                                                                  Brought over       3,077.53            932.12              –                 –
       In Government bonds & securities: (Contd.)
              Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                  Brought over        445.29                  –              –                 –
              5,000,000 (–) 6.57% Gujarat State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                   50.15                 –              –                 –
              1,000,000 (–) 7.98% Karnataka State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                   11.03                 –              –                 –
          10,000,000 (–) 6.53% Karnataka State Development Loan
                     of H 100 each                                                    100.40                  –              –                 –
              4,150,000 (–) 6.54% Karnataka State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                   41.55                 –              –                 –
              1,000,000 (–) 8.15% Maharashtra State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                   11.12                 –              –                 –
                          Amortised cost                                              659.54                  –              –                 –


       In Fixed deposits:
              Unquoted:
                      – 7.80% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                             –                  –              –            200.00
                      – 7.80% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                             –                  –              –            200.00
                      – 7.82% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                             –             100.00         107.84                 –
                      – 7.20% HDFC Bank Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                 –                  –              –            300.00
                          Amortised cost                                                   –             100.00         107.84            700.00


       In Fixed maturity plans
              Unquoted:
          20,000,000 (20,000,000) Units of Axis Fixed Term Plan
                     Direct Growth                                                         –              23.00          24.93                 –
       1,762,182,600 (2,040,182,600) Units of Aditya Birla Sun Life
                     Fixed Term Plan Direct Growth                                     680.16           2,026.18      1,508.21            342.76
         525,000,000 (615,000,000) Units of DSP Fixed Maturity
                     Plan Direct Growth                                                 11.77            608.71         646.07            110.95
              1,082,207 (1,502,631) Units of PGIM India Fixed Maturity Fund
                        Direct Plan Growth                                             78.65             126.03          57.55             51.94
         833,000,000 (861,000,000) Units of HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan                  500.87             942.67         517.87             34.64
       1,429,000,000 (1,813,000,000) Units of ICICI - Prudential Fixed
                     Maturity Plan                                                    578.55            1,649.12      1,203.02            475.71
         154,000,000 (213,000,000) Units of IDFC Fixed Term Plan Growth                    –             178.49         192.52             72.68
                                                                                                                                                    14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




       1,322,000,000 (1,533,000,000) Units of Kotak Fixed Maturity
                     Plan Growth                                                       737.55           1,507.27        891.60            257.76
         170,000,000 (170,000,000) Units of L&T Fixed Maturity
                     Plan Direct Growth                                               128.56             193.04          80.55                 –
                                                                   Carried over      2,716.11       7,254.51           5,122.32       1,346.44
                                                                   Carried over      3,737.07           1,032.12        107.84            700.00



                                                                                                                                            137
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                       Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                                            As at 31 March                 As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                             2021              2020         2021             2020



                                                                                       Brought over       3,737.07           1,032.12     107.84            700.00
                              In Fixed maturity plans: (Contd.)
                                   Unquoted: (Contd.)
                                                                                       Brought over       2,716.11       7,254.51        5,122.32       1,346.44
                                956,000,000 (1,295,000,000) Units of Nippon India Fixed Horizon
                                            Fund Growth                                                    508.33            1,099.61      679.77           421.03
                                290,000,000 (315,000,000) Units of Invesco Fixed Maturity
                                            Plan Direct Growth                                              48.95             335.53      313.34             30.86
                                770,000,000 (802,000,000) Units of SBI Debt Fund Direct
                                            Plan Growth                                                    316.55             877.50      632.51             39.51
                                 70,000,000 (70,000,000) Units of Sundaram Fixed Term Plan
                                            Direct Growth                                                       –              81.06        87.56                –
                                100,000,000 (100,000,000) Units of Tata Fixed Maturity Plan Growth           12.10            115.07       112.42                –
                                340,000,000 (395,000,000) Units of UTI Fixed Maturity Plan Growth            12.52            393.97      412.88             67.84
                                                Amortised cost                                            3,614.56       10,157.25       7,360.80       1,905.68


                              In Exchange traded funds
                                   Quoted:
                                   8,724,846 (–) Bharat Bond ETF April 2025                                904.90                  –           –                 –
                                            (–) Nippon India ETF Nifty CPSE Bond Plus
                                 13,695,640
                                            SDL - 2024 Maturity                                             142.74                 –           –                 –
                                 11,185,688 (–) Bharat Bond ETF - April 2030                              1,273.11                 –           –                 –
                                                Amortised cost                                            2,320.75                 –           –                 –


                           Investment carried at fair value through profit or loss
                              In Short-term mutual funds
                                   Quoted:
                                 34,631,684 (34,631,684) Units of DSP Banking & PSU Debt Fund -
                                            Direct Plan - Growth                                            66.44              61.34           –                 –
                                341,788,061 (386,367,631) Units of IDFC Corporate Bond Fund -
                                            Direct Plan -Growth                                            521.83             539.47           –                 –
                                 14,296,498 (28,865,899) Units of IDFC Super Saver Income Fund
                                            - Short Term-Direct Plan-Growth                                  67.00            125.17           –                 –
                                 30,603,467 (46,405,849) Units of Kotak Bond Short Term Plan-
                                            Direct Plan - Growth                                           133.06             186.15           –                 –
                                 30,779,648 (62,153,969) Units of L&T Short Term Opportunities
                                            Fund - Direct Plan- Growth                                      66.64             125.16           –                 –
                                             – (21,129,320) Units of Nippon India Banking & PSU Debt
                                               Fund - Direct Plan- Growth                                       –              31.88           –                 –
                                 92,496,457 (92,496,457) Units of Nippon India Floating Rate Fund
                                            - Short Term-Direct Plan - Growth                              332.88             304.14           –                 –
                                146,141,389 (146,141,389) Units of ICICI Prudential Income
                                            Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan-Growth                         467.67            431.12           –                 –
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                                                        Carried over      1,655.52       1,804.43              –                 –
                                                                                        Carried over      9,672.38       11,189.37       7,468.64       2,605.68




                     138
                                                                                                                                   Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                   Non-current investments                 Current investments
                                                                                                          As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                2021               2020               2021               2020



                                                                               Brought over            9,672.38          11,189.37           7,468.64           2,605.68
         In Short-term mutual funds (Contd.)
              Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                               Brought over            1,655.52           1,804.43                    –                    –
            449,031,864 (449,031,864) Units of HDFC Medium Term
                        Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan-Growth                                        1,130.82           1,036.53                    –                    –
             47,617,832 (47,617,832) Units of Sundaram Banking & PSU Debt
                        Fund - Direct Plan- Growth                                                        162.76             152.61                   –                    –
                            Fair value                                                                  2,949.10          2,993.57                    –                    –


         In Long duration bond funds
              Quoted:
             82,700,443 (–) Units of Nippon India Dynamic Bond Fund - Direct
                        Plan - Growth                                                                    251.02                    –                  –                    –
             83,348,103 (–) Units of L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund - Direct Plan-Growth                       497.08                    –                  –                    –
                            Fair value                                                                    748.10                   –                  –                    –


         In Liquid and overnight mutual funds
              Quoted:
                         – (559,861) SBI Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                     –                  –                  –           174.07
              1,236,693 (–) IDFC Cash Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                               –                  –           307.44                      –
              1,103,220 (–) Axis Overnight Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                          –                  –           120.02                      –
              1,202,383 (–) Kotak Overnight Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                         –                  –           132.01                      –
                            Fair value                                                                          –                  –           559.47             174.07


Total (B)                                                                                             13,369.58          14,182.94           8,028.11            2,779.75


Total (A+B)                                                                                          14,602.84          15,416.20           8,028.11           2,779.75


Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments                                                   2.17               2.17                  –                    –


                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Book value                           Market value
                                                                                                          As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                2021               2020               2021               2020


                                                                                      Quoted          10,192.83           4,028.26          10,140.04           4,028.29
                                                                                   Unquoted           12,438.12          14,167.69                  NA                 NA
                                                                                        Total        22,630.95          18,195.95
                                                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Notes to Investments
1 Investments made by the Company other than those with a maturity of less than one year, are intended to be held for long-term. On an assessment of the expected
  credit loss due to significant changes in risk profile, no material provisions are required to be made.
2 In absence of an active market and non availability of quotes on a recognised stock exchange, investment in fixed maturity plans and fixed term plans though listed on
  recognised stock exchanges are disclosed as unquoted. Other mutual funds, though unlisted, are quoted on recognised stock exchanges at their previous day NAVs
  which is the quote for the day.
3 Refer note 1 (6) for accounting policy on investments and note 32 for credit risk management related to investments.




                                                                                                                                                                      139
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     6 Loans
                       (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                  Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                  2021                2020               2021               2020



                     Security deposits                                                                                            26.21              26.25                    –                    –
                     Employee loans                                                                                                5.22                6.21               5.74                   6.11
                                                                                                                                  31.43              32.46                5.74                   6.11
                     Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (Previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
                     jointly and severally. [See note 38]



                     7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                  Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                  2021                2020               2021               2020



                     Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                                                                           –               0.02                   –                    –
                     Interest receivable on investments                                                                                –               3.11              50.04              29.57
                     Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                                                                       –                   –              0.72               0.68
                     Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 31]                                                   –                   –           121.39                      –
                     Other advances                                                                                                    –                   –             51.38              47.31


                                                                                                                                       –               3.13            223.53               77.56
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     140
                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                         Non-current                        Current
                                                                                         As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2021             2020           2021               2020



Capital advances                                                                        238.52            179.80              –                   –
Security deposits                                                                          6.65             6.62              –                   –
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind
   Advances to related parties [See note 38]                                                  –               –            8.81               8.44
   Other advances                                                                         23.79            24.33        215.03             103.98
   Doubtful advances                                                                       8.13             8.14              –                   –
                                                                                          31.92            32.47        223.84             112.42
   Provision for doubtful advances                                                         8.13             8.14              –                   –
                                                                                          23.79            24.33        223.84             112.42
Gratuity asset [See note 37]                                                              16.34               –               –                   –
VAT refund receivable                                                                     39.78            39.78        130.31             135.61
GST credit/refund receivable                                                                  –               –         764.33             241.02
Export incentives receivable
   Unsecured considered good                                                                  –               –           61.17             147.62
   Doubtful                                                                                0.21             0.21              –                   –
                                                                                           0.21             0.21          61.17             147.62
   Provision for doubtful export incentives                                                0.21             0.21              –                   –
                                                                                              –               –           61.17             147.62
                                                                                        325.08            250.53       1,179.65            636.67


9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2021               2020



Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 84.31 crore (previous year H 90.74 crore))                          664.26             461.44
Work-in-progress                                                                                                         85.50               57.60
Finished goods                                                                                                          714.36             522.78
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                       27.07             20.43
Loose tools                                                                                                                2.70               1.25
                                                                                                                      1,493.89           1,063.50

Amount recognised in profit and loss
Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 47.75 crore
[Previous year – H 40.27 crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
                                                                                                                                                       14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                               141
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Non-current                   Current
                                                                                        As at 31 March              As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                        2021             2020       2021               2020



                     Unsecured, considered good                                             –                –    2,716.85           1,725.10
                     Credit impaired                                                    44.10            28.21          –                  –
                                                                                        44.10            28.21    2,716.85           1,725.10
                     Impairment allowance for credit impaired [See note 32 (A)]         44.10            28.21          –                  –
                                                                                            –                –    2,716.85           1,725.10


                     11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                    As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                    2021               2020



                     Balances with banks                                                                           505.10             277.24
                     Cash on hand                                                                                    0.03               0.09
                                                                                                                   505.13             277.33


                     12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Non-current                   Current
                                                                                        As at 31 March              As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                        2021             2020       2021               2020



                     Unclaimed dividend accounts                                            –                –      22.21              30.94
                     Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months            –             0.02          –                  –
                     Deposits with residual maturity for less than twelve months            –                –       0.02                  –
                                                                                            –             0.02      22.23              30.94
                     Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' [See note 7]           –            (0.02)         –                  –
                                                                                            –                –      22.23              30.94
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     142
                                                                                                              Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2021              2020



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                  300.00             300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                   289.37            289.37
                                                                                                                         289.37            289.37


a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                     As at 31 March 2021             As at 31 March 2020
Particulars                                                                                Nos.      D In Crore            Nos.       D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                       289,367,020           289.37    289,367,020             289.37
Issued during the year                                                                        –               –               –                  –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                                 289,367,020           289.37    289,367,020             289.37


b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

   The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to
   one vote per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors
   and approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
   the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
   The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.

c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                     As at 31 March 2021             As at 31 March 2020
Particulars                                                                                Nos.      % Holding             Nos.      % Holding



Equity shares of D 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                    96,727,050          33.43%      96,727,050             33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                             26,281,400           9.08%      26,281,400              9.08%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                                 22,997,485           7.95%      15,730,820              5.44%
                                                                                                                                                     14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                               143
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     14 Other equity
                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                              2021              2020



                     Reserves and surplus:
                     General reserve
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                               5,431.60       4,921.60
                     Add: Transferred from surplus in the Statement of Profit and Loss                      456.00             510.00
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                     5,887.60       5,431.60


                     Retained earnings
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                              14,750.44      16,451.58
                     Profit for the year                                                                   4,554.59       5,099.98
                     Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
                           Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                  12.22            (33.19)
                     Less: Appropriations
                           Transfer to General reserve                                                      456.00             510.00
                           Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2019                                        –       1,736.20
                           Tax on final dividend as above                                                         –            335.57
                           Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020                                      –       3,472.40
                           Tax on interim dividend as above                                                       –            713.76
                     Total appropriations                                                                   456.00            6,767.93


                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                    18,861.25      14,750.44


                     Other reserves:
                     Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 32]                                                148.90               5.63
                     Costs of hedging reserve [See note 32]                                                 (58.06)           (121.81)


                     FVTOCI reserve
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                (413.13)            74.51
                     Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                         501.56            (487.64)
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                       88.43            (413.13)


                     Share based payment reserve
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                  10.01                 –
                     Add: Recognised during the year                                                           6.90             10.01
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                        16.91             10.01


                     Treasury shares
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                (26.62)                 –
                     Add: Changes during the year                                                             (5.52)           (26.62)
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                       (32.14)           (26.62)
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                                                                          24,912.89      19,636.12



                     144
                                                                                                                                     Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
14 Other equity (Contd.)

Nature and purpose of reserve:

General reserve

General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the
Companies Act, 2013. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Retained earnings

Retained earnings is a free reserve. This is the accumulated profit earned by the Company till date, less transfer to general reserve,
dividend (including dividend distribution tax) and other distributions made to the shareholders.

Cash flow hedging reserve and Costs of hedging reserve

It represents the effective portion of the fair value of forward/option contracts designated as cashflow hedge.

FVTOCI reserve

The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive
income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity.

Share based payment reserve

Share based payment reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 ‘Share Based Payments’ on the employee stock option scheme
operated by the Company for its employees.

Treasury shares

The reserve for shares of the Company held by the Bajaj Auto ESOP Trust (ESOP Trust). Company has issued employees stock option
scheme for its employees. The equity shares of the Company have been purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to issue and allot to
employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.


15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                        2021                  2020



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                 121.46             125.59
                                                                                                                                                 121.46             125.59
The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available for
pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. Also see note 31.
                                                                                                                                                                                14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                                                          145
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                         Non-current                     Current
                                                                                                         As at 31 March                As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                         2021             2020         2021              2020


                     Provision for employee benefits [See note 37]
                     Provision for gratuity                                                                  –            77.94            –                 –
                     Provision for compensated absences                                                      –               –        129.66            134.81
                     Provision for welfare scheme                                                         1.98             2.56         0.67              0.52
                                                                                                          1.98            80.50       130.33            135.33
                     Other provisions
                     Provision for warranties                                                                –               –         22.04             22.64
                                                                                                          1.98            80.50       152.37            157.97


                     Provision for warranties
                     Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of vehicles sold which are still under warranty at the end of the reporting
                     period. These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year. Management estimates the provision based on historical
                     warranty claim information; and any recent trends that may suggest future claims could differ from historical amounts.
                                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                       2021              2020



                     At the beginning of the year                                                                                      22.64             21.85
                     Arising during the year                                                                                           18.03             17.14
                     Utilised during the year                                                                                          18.63             16.35
                     At the end of the year                                                                                            22.04             22.64


                     17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                       2021              2020


                     Deferred tax liabilities
                     On account of timing difference in
                           Property, plant and equipment                                                                              125.36            154.79


                     Employee benefits:
                           Defined benefit plans provisions - P&L                                                                      22.17              2.58
                           Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                                                       0.33              0.30


                     Financial instruments:
                           Mutual funds including fixed maturity plans, ETFs                                                          409.65            360.33
                           Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                                              50.08              1.89
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                           Financial assets at FVTOCI                                                                                  13.14              2.57
                                                                                                                                      472.87            364.79
                     Gross deferred tax liabilities                                                                                   620.73            522.46



                     146
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
17 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Contd.)
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                     2021               2020



Deferred tax assets
On account of timing difference in
   Employee benefits:
		     Welfare scheme costs & others                                                                             0.67               0.77
		Bonus provisions                                                                                                1.72              1.72
		     Provision for privilege leave etc.                                                                       32.63              33.93
		     Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                                                    18.11             22.19
                                                                                                                53.13              58.61
Financial instruments:
   Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                                               19.53              40.97
   Financial assets at FVTOCI                                                                                       –              55.14
   Amortisation of discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                            0.68               0.11
                                                                                                                20.21              96.22
Other items:
   Provision for bad/doubtful debts and advances                                                                 13.15               9.15
   Taxes, duties, others etc.                                                                                    12.10             12.10
                                                                                                                25.25              21.25
Gross deferred tax assets                                                                                       98.59             176.08
                                                                                                               522.14            346.38


Movement in deferred tax liabilities
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                         Property,
                                                                         plant and   Financial    Employee        Other
Particulars                                                             equipment instruments      benefits       items            Total



At 31 March 2019                                                           231.38       278.15       (48.94)      82.07          542.66
Charged/(credited)
   –   to profit and loss                                                  (76.59)      114.90        (2.03)    (103.32)          (67.04)
   –   to other comprehensive income                                            –      (124.48)       (4.76)             –       (129.24)
At 31 March 2020                                                           154.79       268.57       (55.73)     (21.25)         346.38
Charged/(credited)
   –   to profit and loss                                                  (29.43)       48.75        20.99       (4.00)           36.31
   –   to other comprehensive income                                            –       135.34         4.11              –        139.45
At 31 March 2021                                                           125.36       452.66      (30.63)      (25.25)          522.14
                                                                                                                                            14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                     147
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                           2021             2020



                     Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                           0.50             0.83
                                                                                                            0.50             0.83


                     19 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                           2021             2020



                     Security deposits                                                                     21.50            24.52
                     Unclaimed dividend                                                                    22.21            30.94
                     Valuation losses on derivative hedging instruments [See note 31]                         –            155.26
                     Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                        32.00            34.82
                     Employee benefits payable                                                            178.55           172.09
                     Other payables                                                                       153.18           130.64
                                                                                                          407.44           548.27
                     Refer note 31 for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.



                     20 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                           2021             2020



                     Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                           0.39             0.41
                     Advance received from customers                                                      408.03           254.13
                     Taxes and duties payable                                                              47.02            46.29
                     Other payables                                                                        27.35            28.05
                                                                                                          482.79           328.88
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     148
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
21 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2021             2020



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products                                                                                                27,132.90       29,111.54


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                         18.67            18.14
Export incentives                                                                                                 245.59           458.59
Royalty                                                                                                           153.20           161.59
Technical know how fees                                                                                                 –             2.02
Rent [See note 39]                                                                                                 29.45             31.88
Insurance claims                                                                                                     0.25             0.48
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                             55.08             72.75
Government grants                                                                                                    2.65             2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                  103.29             59.01
                                                                                                                  608.18            807.11
                                                                                                                27,741.08       29,918.65


Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                          14,445.62        16,895.61
Outside India                                                                                                  12,687.28        12,215.93
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                     27,132.90       29,111.54


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                27,374.31        29,410.26
Adjustments:
    Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                         (183.94)        (184.59)
    Sales promotion expenses                                                                                      (57.47)         (114.13)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                           27,132.90       29,111.54
                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                       149
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     22 Other income
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                      2021                2020



                     Investment income
                     Interest income on fixed income securities                                                       65.77               17.04
                     Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                     (5.57)              18.24
                     Interest income on fixed deposits                                                                17.87               28.90
                     Interest income on exchange traded funds                                                         76.85                    –
                     Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                        842.51              903.55
                     Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                        997.43              967.73


                     Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                                                       –             208.99
                     Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                       –              25.38


                     Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                            254.25              462.70
                     Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                         15.74               19.53
                                                                                                                   1,267.42           1,684.33
                     Others
                     Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                  1.94                5.28
                     Tax refunds/credits                                                                               7.10                0.05
                     Gain on exchange fluctuations                                                                        –               43.90
                                                                                                                       9.04               49.23


                                                                                                                   1,276.46           1,733.56


                     23 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March
                                                                                                                                (Increase)/
                     Particulars                                                                      2021            2020        decrease



                     Inventories at the end of the year
                     Work-in-progress                                                                 85.50           57.60             (27.90)
                     Finished goods                                                                  714.36         522.78             (191.58)
                                                                                                     799.86         580.38             (219.48)
                     Inventories at the beginning of the year
                     Work-in-progress                                                                 57.60           46.96             (10.64)
                     Finished goods                                                                  522.78          470.41             (52.37)
                                                                                                    580.38           517.37             (63.01)
                                                                                                    (219.48)        (63.01)
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     150
                                                                                     Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
24 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                     2021             2020



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees [See note 38]                                         1,135.47         1,199.16
Contribution to provident and other funds [See note 37 & 38]                                    61.32           92.23
Share based payment to employees                                                                 6.90            10.01
Staff welfare expenses                                                                         82.27             87.81
                                                                                            1,285.96         1,389.21


25 Finance costs
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                     2021             2020



Interest expense                                                                                 5.48             2.10
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                          1.18             1.06
                                                                                                 6.66             3.16


26 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                     2021             2020



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                 232.06           230.76
Depreciation on investment property                                                              1.60             1.60
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                             24.97             13.42
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                   0.65             0.65
                                                                                              259.28           246.43      14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                   151
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     27 Other expenses
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                             2021             2020



                     Stores and tools consumed                                                                             116.05           130.17
                     Power, fuel and water                                                                                  91.34           116.57
                     Rent                                                                                                   16.27             15.74
                     Repairs to buildings                                                                                    30.12            56.78
                     Repairs to machinery                                                                                    72.74          125.03
                     Other repairs                                                                                           13.96            11.47
                     Insurance                                                                                                6.57             3.25
                     Rates and taxes                                                                                        24.46              7.49
                     Payment to auditor                                                                                       1.85             1.91
                     Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                  0.99              1.14
                     Commission to non-executive directors                                                                    6.98             3.05
                     Travelling expenses                                                                                      5.75            77.29
                     Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                395.62           424.77
                     Loss on exchange fluctuations                                                                          22.73                   –
                     Packing material consumed                                                                             364.24           375.38
                     Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                       204.53           178.08
                     Advertisement                                                                                         247.91           488.27
                     Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                            103.66           133.44
                     Sales promotion expenses                                                                               42.37           115.20
                     Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                          3.00           34.50
                     Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                  128.25           119.44
                     Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                             0.62             0.22
                     Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                          13.10            13.70
                     Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)          16.15            22.01
                                                                                                                         1,929.26         2,454.90

                     Payment to auditor
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                             2021             2020



                     As auditor
                           Audit fee                                                                                          1.04             1.04
                           Tax audit fee                                                                                      0.10             0.10
                           Limited review                                                                                     0.66             0.66
                           Other services (certification fees)                                                                0.05             0.05
                     Reimbursement of expenses                                                                                   –             0.06
                                                                                                                              1.85             1.91
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     152
                                                                                     Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                     2021             2020



a) Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year                           126.91           118.80
b) Amount spent in cash during the year on:
    i)   Construction/acquisition of any asset                                                      –                  –
    ii) On purposes other than (i) above                                                      128.25           119.44
                                                                                              128.25           119.44


28 Exceptional items
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                     2021             2020


No exceptional items for both the periods                                                           –                  –
                                                                                                    –                  –


29 Tax expense
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                     2021             2020


(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                         1,348.10         1,547.26


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                      (3.17)            9.41
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                39.48           (76.45)
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                           36.31           (67.04)


Tax expense                                                                                 1,384.41         1,480.22
                                                                                                                           14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                   153
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     29 Tax expense (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                          2021             2020


                     (b) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
                     Profit before tax                                                                                5,939.00         6,580.20
                     Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year - 25.168%)                                  1,494.73         1,656.10
                     Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
                           –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                               33.04             15.47
                           –   Disallowance of estimated expenditure to earn tax exempt income                                –             6.13
                           –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                (0.47)             1.40
                           –   Rate difference on account of fair value of mutual funds                                       –           15.09
                           –   Others                                                                                      1.73             1.81


                     Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
                           –   Reversal in deferred tax due to tax rate reduction                                             –          (81.97)
                           –   Tax-free interest                                                                          (0.16)           (2.72)
                           –   Difference in tax rate on account of dividend received from subsidiary                         –          (16.74)
                           –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                      –           (6.39)
                           –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                        (64.93)          (60.01)
                           – Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                 (78.54)          (46.85)
                           –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                             (0.99)            (1.10)
                     Tax expense                                                                                      1,384.41         1,480.22


                     30 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                          2021             2020



                     a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                              4,554.59         5,099.98
                           Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                     289,367,020     289,367,020
                           Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)       122,242           99,750
                           Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                 289,244,778     289,267,270
                     b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                          157.5            176.3
                           Face value per share H                                                                          10.0             10.0
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     154
                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
31 Fair value measurement
i) Financial instruments by category
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)

                                                     31 March 2021                           31 March 2020
                                                                     Amortised                               Amortised
Particulars                                FVTPL           FVTOCI         Cost     FVTPL           FVTOCI         Cost



Financial assets
Investments
    –   Equity                                  –         1,274.23           –          –          700.99               –
    –   Bonds and debentures                    –               –      1,803.30         –               –         231.12
    –   Government bonds and securities         –               –       659.54          –               –               –
    –   Exchange traded funds                   –               –      2,320.75         –               –               –
    –   Fixed maturity plans                    –               –     10,975.36         –               –     12,062.96
    –   Fixed deposits                          –               –       107.84          –               –        800.00
    –   Short-term mutual funds           2,949.10              –            –    2,993.56              –               –
    –   Long duration bond funds           748.10               –            –          –               –               –
    –   Liquid mutual funds                559.47               –            –     174.06               –               –
Trade receivables                               –               –      2,716.85         –               –       1,725.10
Loans                                           –               –         37.17         –               –         38.57
Other financial assets                          –               –        102.14         –               –          80.69
Cash and cash equivalents                       –               –       505.13          –               –        277.33
Other bank balances                             –               –        22.23          –               –          30.94
Derivative financial assets                     –          121.39            –          –               –               –
                                          4,256.67        1,395.62    19,250.31   3,167.62         700.99     15,246.71


Financial liabilities
Sales tax deferral                              –               –       121.46          –               –        125.59
Trade payables                                  –               –      4,573.81         –               –       3,199.70
Other financial liabilities                     –               –       407.44          –               –        393.01
Derivative financial liability                  –               –            –          –          155.26               –
                                                –               –      5,102.71         –          155.26       3,718.30
                                                                                                                             14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                     155
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     31 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
                     ii) Fair value hierarchy

                           This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are
                           (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the
                           financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has
                           classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level
                           follows underneath the table.

                     Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                     Particulars                                                                    Note No.        Level 1      Level 2      Level 3           Total



                     Financial investments at FVTPL
                     Short-term mutual funds                                                           5           2,949.10            –            –      2,949.10
                     Long duration bond funds                                                          5             748.10            –            –       748.10
                     Liquid mutual funds                                                               5             559.47            –            –       559.47
                     Financial investments at FVTOCI
                     Derivatives designated as hedges
                           Option contracts                                                            7                  –       121.39            –       121.39
                     Equity investment                                                                 5           1,152.57       121.66            –      1,274.23
                                                                                                                   5,409.24       243.05            –     5,652.29



                     Assets disclosed at fair value - at 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                     Particulars                                                                    Note No.        Level 1      Level 2      Level 3           Total



                     Investment property                                                               3                  –       205.55            –       205.55
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     156
                                                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
31 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy (Contd.)

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            Level 1          Level 2          Level 3             Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
Short-term mutual funds                                                                                5             2,993.56                  –                 –      2,993.56
Liquid mutual funds                                                                                   5                174.06                  –                 –        174.06
Financial investments at FVTOCI
Equity investment                                                                                     5                629.49             71.50                  –        700.99
                                                                                                                      3,797.11            71.50                  –      3,868.61


Financial liabilities at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
    Option contracts                                                                                  7                       –         155.26                   –        155.26



Assets disclosed at fair value - at 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            Level 1          Level 2          Level 3             Total



Investment property                                                                                    3                      –         201.20                   –        201.20

Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets. Quotes would include rates/values/valuation references
published periodically by BSE, NSE etc. basis which trades take place in a linked or unlinked active market. This includes traded bonds and mutual funds, as the case may
be, that have quoted price/rate/value.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market are determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable
market data (either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices) and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair
value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is the case for unlisted equity securities,
contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Valuation techniques used to determine fair value
Valuation techniques used to determine fair value include
   l Open ended mutual funds at NAV’s/rates declared and/or quoted
   l Derivative Instruments at values determined by counter parties/banks using market observable data




iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              31 March 2021                           31 March 2020
                                                                                                           Carrying                  Fair          Carrying                 Fair
Particulars                                                                                                 Amount                  value           Amount                 value



Financial assets
Investments
Bonds and debentures                                                                                        1,803.30              1,780.78            231.12              231.18
                                                                                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Government bonds and securities                                                                               659.54               646.49                    –                      –
Exchange traded funds                                                                                       2,320.75              2,303.55                   –                      –
Fixed maturity plans                                                                                       10,975.36           11,121.18           12,062.96          12,291.04
                                                                                                           15,758.95          15,852.00            12,294.08          12,522.22
The carrying amounts of fixed deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, other financial assets/liabilities, loans and cash and cash equivalents are considered to be the
same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.



                                                                                                                                                                              157
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     32 Financial risk management
                     The Company’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including foreign exchange risk). In order to minimise
                     any adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company, derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward
                     contracts and foreign currency option contracts are entered to hedge certain foreign currency risk exposures. Derivatives are used
                     exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or speculative instruments.

                     This note explains the sources of risk which the Company is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the impact of hedge
                     accounting in the financial statements
                     Risk                   Exposure arising from                      Measurement            Management



                                            Cash and cash equivalents, financial       Credit ratings         Diversification of counterparties,
                                            assets measured at amortised cost                                 diversification of investment limits,
                                            & fair value through profit or loss                               monitoring of counterparties basis credit rating
                     Credit Risk            Derivative financial instruments           Credit ratings         Deal with reputed banks holding high
                                                                                                              credit risk rating
                                            Trade receivables                          Credit limit and       No. of overdue days, monitoring of credit limits
                                                                                       aging analysis
                     Liquidity Risk         Other liabilities                          Maturity analysis      Maintaining sufficient cash/cash equivalents
                                                                                                              and marketable securities
                     Market Risk-           Highly probable forecast transactions      Sensitivity analysis   Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign
                     Foreign Exchange       and financial assets and liabilities not                          currency options
                                            denominated in INR


                     The Board of Directors provide guiding principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as
                     foreign exchange risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of
                     available funds. The Company’s risk management is carried out by a treasury department as per such policies approved by the Board
                     of Directors. Accordingly, Company’s treasury department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.

                     A) Credit risk

                     Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty may default on its contractual obligations leading to a financial loss to the Company.
                     Credit risk primarily arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, financial assets measured at amortised
                     cost, financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and trade receivables. None of the financial instruments of the
                     Company result in material concentration of credit risk.

                     Credit risk management

                     For Derivative instruments exposures are extended with multiple banks holding high credit risk ratings.

                     In regard to Trade receivables, which are typically unsecured, credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit
                     limits and continuously monitoring the credit worthiness of customers to whom credit is extended in the normal course of business.
                     The Company follows a ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. Accordingly,
                     impairment loss allowance is recognised based on lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date, right from its initial
                     recognition. The provision rates are based on days past due; and the calculation reflects the probability weighted outcome, the
                     time value of money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current
                     conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     158
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure of the Company’s trade receivables using provision matrix:
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As on 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2021              2020



Estimated total gross carrying amount                                                                            2,760.95       1,753.31
ECL                                                                                                                44.10              28.21
Net carrying amount                                                                                              2,716.85           1,725.10

Reconciliation of impairment allowance – Trade receivable
Particulars                                                                                                                  (J In Crore)



Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2019                                                                                               6.74
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                             21.47
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2020                                                                                              28.21
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                             15.89
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2021                                                                                              44.10


For other financial assets, the Company has an investment policy which allows the Company to invest only with counterparties
having a credit rating equal to or above AA+ and A1+. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of these counterparties on
an on-going basis. Counter party limits maybe updated as and when required, subject to approval of Board of Directors.

B) Liquidity risk

The Company’s principal source of liquidity are ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and cash flows that are generated from operations.
The Company believes that its working capital is sufficient to meet the financial liabilities within maturity period. The Company has
no outstanding term borrowings except sales tax deferral liability amounting to H 121.46 crore which are interest free and are
repayable after 12 years from the Balance Sheet date. Additionally, the Company has invested its surplus funds in fixed income
securities or instruments of similar profile thereby ensuring safety of capital and availability of liquidity as and when required.
Hence the Company carries a negligible liquidity risk.
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2021              2020



The Company had
Net working capital funds                                                                                        8,531.92       2,343.75
which includes;
      i)   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                              505.13             277.33
      ii) Current investments                                                                                    8,028.11           2,779.75
                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                        159
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
                     The table below summarises the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2021 and 31 March 2020:
                     Maturities of financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          Less than
                                                                                                                          and equal    More than
                     Particulars                                                                                           to 1 year      1 year         Total



                     As on 31 March 2021
                     Non-derivatives
                     Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                              –       121.46       121.46
                     Trade payables                                                                                        4,573.81            –     4,573.81
                     Other financial liabilities                                                                             407.44            –       407.44
                                                                                                                           4,981.25       121.46     5,102.71


                     As on 31 March 2020
                     Non-derivatives
                     Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                              –       125.59       125.59
                     Trade payables                                                                                         3,199.70           –     3,199.70
                     Other financial liabilities                                                                             548.27            –       548.27
                                                                                                                            3,747.97      125.59     3,873.56

                     C) Market risk

                     (i) Foreign currency risk

                     The Company has significant exports and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions,
                     primarily with respect to the USD. Foreign exchange risk arises from highly probable forecast transactions and recognised assets
                     and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Company’s functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through sensitivity
                     analysis. The primary objective for forex hedging against anticipated foreign currency risks will be to hedge the Company’s highly
                     probable foreign currency cash flows arising from such transactions (thus reducing volatility of cash flow and profit).

                     The Company’s risk management policy permits the use of plain foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency option
                     contracts including Foreign Currency - INR Option Cost Reduction Structures to hedge forecasted sales.

                     The Company also imports certain materials the value of which is not material as compared to value of exports. Currently, Company
                     does not hedge this exposure. Nevertheless, Company may wish to hedge such exposures.

                     The Company uses a combination of foreign currency option contracts and foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its exposure
                     in foreign currency risk. The Company designates forward contracts in entirety and intrinsic value of foreign currency option
                     contracts as the hedging instrument. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument
                     is recognised through other comprehensive income in the ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The change in time value that
                     relate to the hedged item (aligned time value) is recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’
                     within equity. Amount recognised in equity is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item (i.e. forecasted export sales) affects
                     Statement of Profit and Loss. The ineffective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument and any residual time value
                     (the non-aligned portion), if any, is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

                     The intrinsic value of foreign exchange option contracts is determined with reference to the relevant spot market exchange rate. The
                     differential between the contracted strike rate and the spot market exchange rate is defined as the intrinsic value. Time value of the
                     option is the difference between fair value of the option and the intrinsic value.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     160
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The fair values (Marked-to-market i.e. MTM) of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as on 31 March 2021 and
31 March 2020 are as follows:
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                As at 31 March 2021            As at 31 March 2020
                                                                              Notional In    MTM Gain/   Notional In         MTM Gain/
For export transactions:                                                    USD Mn (Sell)       (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)            (Loss)



Foreign currency derivative designated as hedging instruments –
options contracts                                                                1,369.00         121.39        1,486.00            (155.26)
                                                                                 1,369.00         121.39        1,486.00            (155.26)
For import transactions: NIL

Open exposure

The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
                                                                                                                             (USD Million)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
                                                                                                                   2021               2020



Receivables                                                                                                       134.16              62.65
Payables                                                                                                           15.80              24.20
Others (EEFC balances)                                                                                             63.32              22.33

Sensitivity analysis

The following table demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant. The impact on other components of equity arises from the changes in fair value of the foreign exchange option contracts
designated as cash flow hedges.
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               31 March        31 March
Impact on other components of equity                                                                               2021            2020



USD Sensitivity
INR/USD – Increase by 5% (Previous year 10%)                                                                     (235.80)           (784.79)
INR/USD – Decrease by 5% (Previous year 10%)                                                                      364.25             477.50

Maturity of outstanding contracts

The details in respect of the maturity of outstanding foreign exchange option contracts are given below:
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                As at 31 March 2021            As at 31 March 2020
                                                                              Notional In    MTM Gain/   Notional In         MTM Gain/
On export transactions:                                                     USD Mn (Sell)       (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)            (Loss)


Not later than three months                                                        339.50            43.61        328.25              (7.90)
Later than three months and not later than six months                              349.50            38.61        353.50             (29.44)
                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Later than six month and not later than one year                                   680.00            39.17        631.25            (105.65)
Later than one year and not later than two years                                        –               –         173.00             (12.27)
                                                                                 1,369.00         121.39        1,486.00            (155.26)
On import transactions: NIL




                                                                                                                                        161
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
                     Impact of hedging activities

                     (a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:
                     Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                   Carrying amount                           Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                                                   Nominal         of hedging               Hedge            value of hedging         item used as a basis for
                     Particulars                                   value           instrument               ratio*           instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



                     Foreign currency options                         10,008.76                   198.98               1:1                  191.46                               (191.46)
                                                                      10,008.76                   198.98                                    191.46                               (191.46)

                     Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                   Carrying amount                           Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                                                   Nominal         of hedging               Hedge            value of hedging         item used as a basis for
                     Particulars                                   value           instrument               ratio*           instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



                     Foreign currency options                         11,228.96                      7.53              1:1                  (58.60)                                  58.60
                                                                      11,228.96                      7.53                                   (58.60)                                  58.60
                     * The foreign exchange option contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.


                     (b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance
                     Cash flow hedge 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                         Change in the value of                Hedge                         Amount reclassified           Line item affected in
                                                         the hedging instrument                ineffectiveness               from cash flow                the Statement of Profit
                                                         recognised in other                   recognised in profit          hedging reserve to            and Loss because of the
                     Particulars                         comprehensive income                  or loss                       profit or loss                reclassification



                     Foreign exchange risk –
                     Options contracts                                               191.46                              –                             –                        Revenue
                                                                                     191.46                              –                             –

                     Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                         Change in the value of                Hedge                         Amount reclassified           Line item affected in
                                                         the hedging instrument                ineffectiveness               from cash flow                the Statement of Profit
                                                         recognised in other                   recognised in profit          hedging reserve to            and Loss because of the
                     Particulars                         comprehensive income                  or loss                       profit or loss                reclassification



                     Foreign exchange risk –
                     Options contracts                                               (58.60)                             –                        26.59                         Revenue
                                                                                     (58.60)                             –                        26.59
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     162
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The Company enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the
hedged item, so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. During the years ended 31 March 2021 and 31 March 2020,
the Company did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items.

Therefore, no ineffectiveness is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the years ended 31 March 2021 and
31 March 2020.

Movements in cash flow hedging reserve and costs of hedging reserve
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    Foreign Currency
                                                                                                                        Risk Foreign
Derivative Instrument                                                                                               exchange options



(i) Cash flow hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2019                                                                                                   60.31
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                     (58.60)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                    (26.59)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                         30.51
Balance – As at 31 March 2020                                                                                                     5.63
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                     191.46
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                           –
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                       (48.19)
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                  148.90


(ii) Costs of hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2019                                                                                                  (17.47)
Less: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                        (138.02)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                       2.10
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                         31.58
Balance – As at 31 March 2020                                                                                                (121.81)
Add: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                            85.20
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                           –
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                       (21.45)
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                 (58.06)

(ii) Other risks

The Company has deployed its surplus funds into various financial instruments including units of mutual funds, bonds, fixed maturity
plans etc. The Company is exposed to price risk on such investments, which arises on account of movement in interest rates, liquidity
and credit quality of underlying securities.

The Company has invested its surplus funds primarily in debt based mutual funds and fixed maturity plans. The value of investment
in these mutual fund schemes is reflected though Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Management Company on daily basis.
The Company has not performed a sensitivity analysis on these mutual funds based on estimated fluctuations in their NAV as in
Management’s opinion, such analysis would not display a correct picture.
                                                                                                                                           14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                   163
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     33 Capital management
                     a) Objectives, policies and processes of capital management

                     The Company is cash surplus and has no capital other than Equity. The Company is not exposed to any regulatory imposed
                     capital requirements.

                     The cash surpluses are currently invested in income generating debt instruments (including through mutual funds) and money
                     market instruments depending on economic conditions in line with the guidelines set out by the Management. Safety of capital is
                     of prime importance to ensure availability of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate return
                     on the surplus funds.

                     The Company does not have any borrowings and does not borrow funds unless circumstances require.
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                        As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                        2021               2020



                     Equity                                                                                                         25,202.26       19,925.49
                     Less: Tangible and other assets                                                                                 2,067.50        2,165.54
                     		 Working capital                                                                                                503.81            (436.00)
                     		 Investments in subsidiaries                                                                                  1,233.26        1,233.26
                     Investments in debt and similar investments                                                                    21,397.69       16,962.69

                     No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes of capital management during the year.

                     b) Dividends distributed and proposed
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                        As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                        2021               2020



                     Dividends recognised in the financial statements
                     Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020 of H Nil (31 March 2019 - H 60) per equity share,
                     declared and paid                                                                                                      –        1,736.20
                     Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2021 of H Nil (31 March 2020 - H 120) per equity share                    –        3,472.40
                     Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
                     Directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of H 140 per equity share
                     (31 March 2020 – H 120). This proposed dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders
                     in the ensuing annual general meeting                                                                            4,051.14                 –
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     164
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
34 Contingent liabilities
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            2021              2020



a   Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts                                                              205.25            223.10
b   Excise, Service tax and Customs matters under dispute                                                             363.38            363.71
c   Income tax matters                                                                                                872.34            914.98
d   Value Added Tax (VAT)/Sales tax matters under dispute                                                             123.31            125.37
e   Claims made by temporary workmen
    Pending before various judicial/appellate authorities in respect of similar matters adjudicated by the
    Supreme Court. The matter is contingent on the facts and evidence presented before the courts/                  Liability     Liability
    adjudicating authorities and not necessarily likely to be influenced by the Supreme Court's order          unascertained unascertained

In all the cases mentioned above, outflow is not probable and hence not provided by the Company.



35 Capital commitments
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            2021              2020



Capital commitments, net of capital advances                                                                          102.93            176.69



36 Segment information
Segment information based on consolidated financial statements is given in note 35 to consolidated financial statements, which are
attached to these financial statements.									
									
The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.

The business segments comprise the following:
i. Automotive
ii. Investments
iii. Others
                                                                                                                                                  14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                          165
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     37 Employee benefits
                     Liability for employee benefits has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in conformity with the principles set
                     out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.

                     Funded schemes
                     Gratuity
                     The Company provides for gratuity payments to employees. The gratuity benefit payable to the employees of the Company is
                     greater of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Company’s gratuity scheme. Employees who are in continuous
                     service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to
                     approved gratuity fund.
                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                      As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                       2021              2020



                     Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
                     Present value of funded defined benefit obligation (DBO)                                                         490.00            631.88
                     Fair value of plan assets                                                                                      (537.58)           (553.94)
                     Net funded obligation                                                                                           (47.58)             77.94
                     Amount not recognised due to asset ceiling                                                                        31.24                 –
                     Net defined benefit liability/(asset) recognised in Balance Sheet                                               (16.34)             77.94


                     Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
                     Current service cost                                                                                              29.43             30.06
                     Past service cost                                                                                                (23.47)                –
                     Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                 (5.36)            (1.00)
                     Total expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                              0.60             29.06


                     Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
                     Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                             88.17             50.31
                     Remeasurements during the period due to:
                           Changes in financial assumptions                                                                                –             41.23
                           Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                              –                 –
                           Experience adjustments                                                                                     (49.84)             5.31
                           Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                    2.38             (8.68)
                           Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                         31.24                 –
                     Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                             71.95             88.17
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     166
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            2021              2020



Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                           77.94            12.01
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                         0.60             29.06
Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                (16.22)            37.86
Employer contributions [includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore from the Company (Previous year - Nil)]            (78.66)            (0.99)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                         (16.34)            77.94



                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            2021              2020



Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                                                 631.88            554.29
Current service cost                                                                                                   29.43             30.06
Past service cost                                                                                                     (23.47)                –
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                                                 31.59             39.43
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions                                                     –             41.23
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience adjustments                                                (49.84)             5.31
Benefits paid [includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore from the Company (Previous year - Nil)]                    (129.59)           (37.95)
Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                                                              –             (0.49)
Closing of defined benefit obligation                                                                                 490.00            631.88



                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            2021              2020



Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                                                     553.94            542.28
Employer contributions [includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore from the Company (Previous year - Nil)]             78.66              0.99
Interest on plan assets                                                                                                36.95             40.43
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                          (2.38)             8.68
                                                                                                                                                  14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Benefits paid [includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore from the Company (Previous year - Nil)]                    (129.59)           (37.95)
Assets acquired/(settled)                                                                                                  –             (0.49)
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                                                     537.58            553.94




                                                                                                                                           167
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
                     Funded schemes (Contd.)
                     Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                                  2021              2020



                     Disaggregation of assets
                     Category of assets
                     Insurer managed funds                                                                                                       537.58            553.94
                     Others                                                                                                                           –                 –
                                                                                                                                                 537.58            553.94


                     Sensitivity Analysis

                     Gratuity is a lump sum plan and the cost of providing these benefits is typically less sensitive to small changes in demographic
                     assumptions. The key actuarial assumptions to which the benefit obligation results are particularly sensitive to are discount rate
                     and future salary escalation rate. The following table summarises the impact in percentage terms on the reported defined benefit
                     obligation (DBO) at the end of the reporting period arising on account of an increase or decrease in the reported assumption by
                     50 basis points.

                                                                                                                    As at 31 March 2021         As at 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                      Salary                    Salary
                                                                                                                     Discount      escalation    Discount    escalation
                     Particulars                                                                                         rate            rate        rate          rate



                     Senior staff
                           Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                         (3.28%)         3.36%      (3.29%)           3.37%
                           Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                          3.48%         (3.20%)       3.49%          (3.21%)
                     Junior staff
                           Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                         (4.12%)         4.36%       (4.12%)          4.35%
                           Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                          4.52%         (4.02%)       4.51%          (4.02%)

                     These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in defined benefit obligation (DBO) in isolation and assuming there
                     are no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. There have been no changes from the previous periods in the
                     methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses.

                     Funding arrangement and policy

                     The money contributed by the Company to the fund to finance the liabilities of the plan has to be invested.

                     The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to insurance companies. The insurance companies in turn
                     manage these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is within the permissible limits
                     prescribed in the insurance regulations.

                     There is no compulsion on the part of the Company to fully pre fund the liability of the plan. The Company’s philosophy is to fund the benefits
                     based on its own liquidity and tax position as well as level of under funding of the plan.

                     The expected contribution payable to the plan next year is H 50 crore.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     168
                                                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
Projected plan cash flow
The table below shows the expected cash flow profile of the benefits to be paid to the current membership of the plan:
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                Less than        Between          Between              Over
Particulars                                                                                        a year       1-2 years        3-5 years          5 years             Total


31 March 2021
Senior staff                                                                                         25.52            11.80           33.37          203.24           273.93
Junior staff                                                                                         64.79            41.61          110.94           547.74          765.08


31 March 2020
Senior staff                                                                                         53.67            15.94           63.35          376.51           509.47
Junior staff                                                                                          51.01           39.86          123.46          559.59           773.92

                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in years)                                                                                  2021                2020


Senior staff                                                                                                                                         6.75                6.78
Junior staff                                                                                                                                         8.62                8.61

                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                         2021                2020


Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages)
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                                               6.80%              6.80%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account, inflation, seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand
and supply in the employment market.

Provident Fund
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                         2021                2020


Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                                                                              1,444.48           1,363.48
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                                                     (1,444.48)          (1,363.48)
Net funded obligation                                                                                                                                    –                     –


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                                                                37.31              38.39
                                                                                                                                                                                   14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Administration expenses                                                                                                                                  –                     –
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                                                        –                     –
(Gains)/losses on settlement                                                                                                                             –                     –
Total expenses charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                              37.31              38.39




                                                                                                                                                                          169
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
                     Funded schemes (Contd.)
                     Provident Fund (Contd.)
                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                             2021              2020


                     Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
                     Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                       –                 –
                     Remeasurements during the period due to
                           Changes in financial assumptions                                                      –                 –
                           Changes in demographic assumptions                                                    –                 –
                           Experience adjustments                                                            17.96             56.28
                           Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                        (17.96)           (56.28)
                           Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                   –                 –
                     Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                       –                 –


                     Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
                     Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                               –                 –
                     Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                         37.31             38.39
                     Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                      –                 –
                     Employer contributions                                                                 (37.31)           (38.39)
                     Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                               –                 –


                     Movement in benefit obligation
                     Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                1,363.48        1,184.13
                     Current service cost                                                                    37.31             38.39
                     Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                  90.60             90.55
                     Remeasurements due to:
                           Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience adjustments                17.96             56.28
                     Employee contributions                                                                  73.29             75.13
                     Benefits paid                                                                         (136.87)           (93.22)
                     Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                           (1.29)            12.22
                     Closing defined benefit obligation                                                   1,444.48        1,363.48


                     Movement in plan assets
                     Opening fair value of plan assets                                                    1,363.48        1,184.13
                     Interest on plan assets                                                                 90.60             90.55
                     Remeasurements due to:
                           Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                         17.96             56.28
                     Employer contributions during the period                                                37.31             38.39
                     Employee contributions during the period                                                73.29             75.13
                     Benefits paid                                                                         (136.87)           (93.22)
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     Assets acquired/(settled)                                                               (1.29)            12.22
                     Closing fair value of plan assets                                                    1,444.48        1,363.48




                     170
                                                                                     Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund (Contd.)
                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2021


Disaggregation of assets
Quoted
Property                                                                                                             –
Government debt instruments                                                                                     753.29
Other debt instruments                                                                                          519.13
Entity's own equity instruments                                                                                      –
Insurer managed funds                                                                                                –
Others                                                                                                          172.06
                                                                                                           1,444.48


                                                                                               As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2021              2020


Key actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                           6.80%            6.80%
Future derived return on assets (p.a.)                                                         8.67%            8.54%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment (p.a.)                      6.25%            6.45%
Average historic yield on the investment (p.a.)                                                8.12%            8.19%
Guaranteed rate of return (p.a.)                                                               8.00%            8.30%




                                                                                                                          14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                  171
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
                     Unfunded Schemes
                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     As at 31 March 2021          As at 31 March 2020
                                                                                                   Compensated       Welfare     Compensated      Welfare
                     Particulars                                                                      Absences       Scheme         Absences      Scheme



                     Present value of unfunded obligations                                                129.66        2.64          134.81           3.08
                     Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss                                15.16        0.28            31.05          0.30
                     Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income                                                      (0.11)                         0.09
                     Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                  6.80%       6.80%           6.80%          6.80%
                     Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                        10.00%          N.A.         10.00%           N.A.
                     Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                        10.00%          N.A.         10.00%           N.A.


                     Compensated absences

                     The compensated absences cover the Company’s liability for casual and earned leave.

                     Entire amount of the provision is presented as current, since the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement
                     for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company does not expect all employees to take the full amount
                     of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months. The following amounts reflect leave that is not expected to be taken
                     or paid within the next 12 months.
                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                      2021            2020



                     Compensated absences expected to be settled after 12 months                                                    108.22            117.31


                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                      2021            2020



                     Amount recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
                     Defined contribution plans:
                           Superannuation paid to trust                                                                               8.23              9.77
                           Pension fund paid to Government authorities                                                               13.33            13.25
                           Others                                                                                                      1.80             1.75
                     Defined benefit plans:
                           Gratuity                                                                                                   0.60            29.06
                           Provident fund paid to trust                                                                               37.31           38.39
                           Others                                                                                                     0.05             0.01
                                                                                                                                     61.32            92.23
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     172
                                                                                                                                                 Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24
                                                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                    2020-21                         2019-20
                                                                                                                                             Outstanding                    Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                amounts                        amounts
                                                                                                                             Transaction       carried in   Transaction       carried in
Name of related party and nature of relationship          Nature of transaction                                                    value   Balance Sheet          value   Balance Sheet



A   Subsidiaries:
    PT.Bajaj Auto Indonesia (99.25% shares held by
    Bajaj Auto Ltd.)                                      Contribution to equity (411,875 shares of USD 3 each)                       –              6.17            –             6.17
                                                          Provision for diminution in value of investment                             –            (2.17)            –            (2.17)
                                                          Services received                                                         1.35               –           3.54           (1.00)
    Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV Amsterdam
    Netherlands (Fully owned subsidiary)                  Contribution to equity (1,980,000 shares of Euro 100 each)                  –          1,218.72            –         1,218.72
                                                          Dividend received                                                           –                –        208.99                –
    Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. (Fully owned subsidiary)   Contribution to equity (449,997 shares of THB 100 each)                     –            10.54          10.54           10.54


B   Associates, joint ventures and investing parties:
    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. (Investing party -   Investment in shares by BHIL
    holds 33.43% shares of Bajaj Auto Ltd.)               (96,727,050 shares of H 10 each)                                            –           (96.73)            –           (96.73)
                                                          Purchase of shares by BAL (3,500,000 shares of H 10 each)                   –          1,111.49            –         1,111.49
                                                          Dividend paid                                                               –                –       1,741.09               –
                                                          Dividend received                                                           –                –          25.38               –
                                                          Business support service received                                        42.27               –          26.18               –
                                                          Business support service rendered                                         0.04               –           0.03               –


C   Key management personnel and their relatives:
    Rahul Bajaj (Chairman)                                Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)                         –                –          10.81           (6.75)
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                    –                –           0.80               –
                                                          Sitting fees                                                              0.07               –             –                –
                                                          Commission                                                                4.68           (4.68)            –                –
                                                          Perquisite value for free use of accomodation/medical costs etc.          1.07               –             –                –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                    0.26               –           0.25               –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                –             3.60             –             3.60
    Rajiv Bajaj (Managing Director)                       Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)                      37.92          (25.02)         36.92          (25.02)
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                  2.65               –           2.95               –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                    2.08               –           2.08               –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                –              1.92            –             1.92
    Pradeep Shrivastava (Executive Director)              Short-term employee benefits                                              7.71               –           7.19               –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                  0.61               –           0.67               –
    Rakesh Sharma (Executive Director)                    Short-term employee benefits                                              7.66               –           6.82               –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                  0.49               –           0.54               –
    Madhur Bajaj (Vice Chairman)                          Rent paid for premises                                                    0.30               –           0.29               –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                –             4.40             –             4.40
                                                          Sitting fees                                                              0.05               –           0.05               –
                                                          Commission                                                                0.13           (0.13)          0.13           (0.13)
    Sanjiv Bajaj                                          Sitting fees                                                              0.05               –           0.08               –
                                                          Commission                                                                0.13           (0.13)          0.20           (0.20)
    Shekhar Bajaj                                         Sitting fees                                                              0.05               –           0.07               –
                                                          Commission                                                                0.13           (0.13)          0.18           (0.18)
    Niraj Bajaj                                           Sitting Fees                                                              0.05               –           0.07               –
                                                          Commission                                                                0.13           (0.13)          0.18           (0.18)
                                                                                                                                                                                           14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                                                                   173
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
                        Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 2020-21                         2019-20
                                                                                                                                                          Outstanding                    Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                             amounts                        amounts
                                                                                                                                          Transaction       carried in   Transaction       carried in
                     Name of related party and nature of relationship   Nature of transaction                                                   value   Balance Sheet          value   Balance Sheet



                     D   Other entities/persons:
                         Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                             Purchase of windpower                                                   11.40               –          14.56               –
                                                                        OA charges reimbursement                                                 8.14               –           8.73               –
                                                                        Business support service rendered                                        0.47               –           0.43               –
                         Bajaj Finance Ltd.                             Investment in shares by BFL (150 shares of H 10 each) - H 1,500            –            (0.00)            –            (0.00)
                                                                        Service rendered                                                        21.48            1.29          28.01            0.06
                                                                        Service received                                                         1.93               –           0.54               –
                                                                        Security deposit received                                                  –            (0.21)            –            (0.21)
                                                                        Investment in fixed deposit                                                –           100.00        500.00           500.00
                                                                        Interest income/(reversal) on fixed deposit                              8.02            11.17         15.50           15.50
                                                                        Dividend paid                                                              –                –           0.00               –
                         Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.       Insurance premiums paid                                                 15.41            8.81          17.01            8.44
                                                                        Claims received                                                            –                –             –                –
                         Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.          Insurance premiums paid                                                  1.17           (0.00)          1.18           (0.00)
                                                                        Investment in shares by BALIC (125,000 shares of H 10 each)                –            (0.13)            –            (0.13)
                                                                        Dividend paid                                                              –                –           2.25               –
                         Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.                     Services rendered                                                        0.05               –           0.05               –
                                                                        Security deposit received                                                  –            (0.02)            –            (0.02)
                         Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                         Purchases (including services received)                                  0.04           (0.14)          0.27           (0.13)
                         Hind Musafir Agency Ltd.                       Services received                                                        1.33            0.29          20.21            0.16
                         Hindustan Housing Co. Ltd.                     Maintenance charges paid                                                 0.23            0.04           0.29               –
                         KTM AG                                         Sale of vehicles and material                                         553.80            53.35        285.23           (25.50)
                         KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH                       Sale of vehicles and material                                         723.86            47.29        385.95            20.37
                                                                        Royalty paid and payable                                               22.68            (6.67)         19.40           (5.51)
                                                                        Services rendered and other debits                                       0.29               –           0.24               –
                                                                        Purchase of accessories, merchant purchase and other credits             4.77               –           2.89               –
                         KTM Southeast Europe A.E.                      Sale of vehicles and material                                            0.13           (0.91)          0.45           (0.51)
                         KTM Southeast Europe S.A.                      Sale of vehicles and material                                              –              0.41            –                –
                         KTM Sportmotorcycle India Pvt. Ltd.            Royalty paid and payable                                                 5.92           (1.58)          4.84           (1.27)
                                                                        Services rendered and other debits                                       2.57               –           3.51               –
                         Husqvarna Motorcycles GmbH                     Sale of vehicles and material                                         154.43             15.18         18.24            6.72
                                                                        Royalty paid and payable                                                 1.43           (0.33)            –                –
                                                                        Services rendered and other debits                                       0.01               –             –                –
                                                                        Purchase of accessories & other credits                                    –                –           0.06               –
                         Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                      Investment in shares by MSL (6,774,072 shares of H 10 each)                –            (6.77)            –            (6.77)
                                                                        Dividend paid                                                              –                –        121.93                –
                                                                        Purchases                                                                1.91               –           2.07               –
                                                                        Sales (including capital asset)                                          0.05               –           0.02               –
                                                                        Services rendered                                                        0.09            0.31           0.11           (0.02)
                         CERG Advisory Pvt. Ltd.                        Services received                                                        0.12               –           0.12               –
                         Bajaj Auto Charitable Trust                    CSR payment                                                                –                –           0.25               –
                         Bajaj Auto Employees Group Gratuity Fund       Gratuity contribution                                                    1.27               –           0.50               –
                         Bajaj Auto Senior Staff Group Gratuity Fund    Gratuity contribution                                                    1.00               –           0.50               –
                         Bajaj Auto Employees Superannuation Fund       Superannuation contribution                                              8.23               –           9.77               –
                         Bajaj Auto Ltd. Provident Fund                 Provident fund contribution (Employer's share)                          37.29          (10.33)         38.39          (10.90)
                         D J Balaji Rao                                 Sitting fees                                                             0.16               –           0.15               –
                                                                        Commission                                                               0.40           (0.40)          0.38           (0.38)
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     174
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                                        2020-21                                            2019-20
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Outstanding                                       Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                                                                        amounts                                           amounts
                                                                                                                                                                             Transaction               carried in              Transaction               carried in
Name of related party and nature of relationship                              Nature of transaction                                                                                value           Balance Sheet                     value           Balance Sheet



     Nanoo Pamnani                                                            Sitting fees                                                                                                  –                        –                    0.10                    –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                    –                        –                    0.55                (0.55)
     Dr. Gita Piramal                                                         Sitting fees                                                                                              0.13                         –                    0.16                    –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.33                   (0.33)                     0.40                (0.40)
     Naushad D Forbes                                                         Sitting fees                                                                                              0.11                         –                    0.13                    –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.28                   (0.28)                     0.33                (0.33)
     Omkar Goswami                                                            Sitting fees                                                                                              0.06                         –                    0.08                    –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.15                   (0.15)                     0.20                (0.20)
     Anami N. Roy                                                             Sitting fees                                                                                              0.12                         –                    0.07                    –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.30                   (0.30)                     0.18                (0.18)
     Pradip Shah                                                              Sitting fees                                                                                              0.05                         –                    0.07                    –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.13                   (0.13)                     0.18                (0.18)
     Ms. Lila Poonawala                                                       Sitting fees                                                                                              0.05                         –                    0.07                    –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.13                   (0.13)                     0.18                (0.18)
     Abhinav Bindra                                                           Sitting fees                                                                                              0.04                         –                        –                   –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.10                   (0.10)                         –                   –
Name of the related party and nature of the related party relationship where control exists have been disclosed irrespective of whether or not there have been transactions between the related parties. In other cases, disclosure has been made only when
there have been transactions with those parties.
Related parties as defined under clause 9 of the Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ have been identified based on representations made by key managerial personnel and information available with the Company.
All above transactions are in the ordinary course of business and on arms' length basis. All outstanding balances are unsecured and are repayable in cash.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              175
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     39 Lease
                     As a lessor:

                     The Company has given premises on operating leases. These lease arrangements range for a period between eleven months to
                     ten years and include both cancellable and non cancellable leases. Most of the leases are renewable for further period on mutually
                     agreeable terms and also include escalation clauses.

                     The total future minimum lease rentals receivable at the Balance Sheet date is as under:
                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                      2021             2020



                     Receivable
                     Within one year                                                                                                 20.97             21.58
                     After one year but not more than five years                                                                     43.81             19.05
                     More than five years                                                                                              0.92             0.85
                                                                                                                                     65.70             41.48


                     40 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                               For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                      2021             2020



                     a     Revenue expenditure - charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                            403.33            408.04
                     b     Revenue expenditure - capitalised                                                                           0.78            13.93
                     c     Capital expenditure - excluding building                                                                  20.36             53.09
                     d     Capital expenditure - building                                                                                 –                  –
                                                                                                                                    424.47            475.06
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     176
                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
41 Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 30 January 2019, approved an Employee Stock Options Scheme (‘ESOS’). Pursuant to
the scheme stock options up to a maximum of 0.17% of the then issued equity capital of the Company aggregating to 5,000,000
equity shares of the face value of H 10 each can be issued in a manner provided in the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits)
Regulations, 2014 as amended. The shareholders of the Company vide their special resolution passed through postal ballot on
11 March 2019 approved the issue of equity shares of the Company under one or more Employee Stock Option Scheme(s).

The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has approved the following grants to select senior level executives of
the Company in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme. The details of grants made as of 31 March 2021 are given in below tables:

                                                                                                                                     31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                              2021



Grant date                                                                                                                        17 May 2019
No. of options granted                                                                                                                 287,636
Exercise price (H)                                                                                                                    2,942.65
Weighted average fair value (H)                                                                                                         827.52

                                                                                                            Weighted      Weighted average
                                                                              No. of     Range of fair    average fair remaining contractual
Total for all grants                                                         options        value (J)        value (J)            life (years)



Outstanding at the beginning of the year                                     280,799    663.31-974.15           827.52
Granted during the year                                                            –                –                –
Cancelled during the year                                                          –                –                –
Expired during the year                                                            –                –                –
Exercised during the year                                                     18,508    663.31-974.15           827.52
Outstanding at the end of the year                                           262,291    663.31-974.15           827.52                    5.63
Vested and exercisable at the end of the year                                      –                –                –                       –

Method used for accounting for share based payment plan:

The Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair value of
options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes model. The key assumptions used in Black Scholes model
for calculating fair value as on the date of grants are:

                                                                                                                      Price of the underlying
                                               Risk free                               Expected          Dividend share in the market at the
Grant date                                 interest rate     Expected life             volatility            yield time of the option grant (J)



17 May 2019                           6.88% to 7.26%       3.51-6.51 years    22.18% to 23.79%             2.04%                      2,942.65

For the year ended 31 March 2021, the Company has accounted expense of H 6.90 crore as employee benefit expenses (See note 24)
on the aforesaid employee stock option plan (Previous year H 10.01 crore). The balance in employee stock option outstanding account
is H 16.91 crore as of 31 March 2021 (Previous year H 10.01 crore).


42 Estimation of uncertainties relating to COVID-19
    The Company has considered the possible effects that may result from the global health pandemic relating to COVID-19 on its
                                                                                                                                                  14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




    operations. In developing the assumptions relating to the possible future uncertainties in the economic conditions because of this
    pandemic, the Company, as at the date of approval of these financial statements has used internal sources of information and
    market based intelligence to arrive at its estimates.




                                                                                                                                           177
                     Standalone Financial Statements




                     Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     43 MSME disclosures
                           Considering the Company has been extended credit period upto 45 days by its vendors and payments being released on a timely
                           basis, there is no liability towards interest on delayed payments under ‘The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development
                           Act 2006’ during the year. There is also no amount of outstanding interest in this regard, brought forward from previous years.
                           Information in this regard is on basis of intimation received, on requests made by the Company, with regards to registration of
                           vendors under the said Act.


                     44 Miscellaneous
                     a.		There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.
                     b.		Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.


                     As per our report of even date                                                                        On behalf of the Board of Directors


                     For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                      Rahul Bajaj
                     Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                       Chairman
                     ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                    Soumen Ray                                        Rajiv Bajaj
                     per Arvind Sethi                                          Chief Financial Officer                             Managing Director
                     Partner
                     Membership Number: 89802                                     Dr. J Sridhar                                      Madhur Bajaj
                     Pune: 29 April 2021                                        Company Secretary                                    Vice Chairman
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     178
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
                     To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

                     Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

                     Opinion

                     We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Holding
                     Company’), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the ‘Group’) and its associate
                     comprising of the consolidated Balance sheet as at 31 March 2021, the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including other
                     comprehensive income, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year
                     then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other
                     explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the ‘consolidated financial statements’).

                     In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of reports
                     of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and associate, the aforesaid
                     consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (the ‘Act’) in the manner
                     so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated
                     state of affairs of the Group and its associate as at 31 March 2021, the consolidated profit including other comprehensive income, the
                     consolidated cash flows and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended on that date.

                     Basis for opinion

                     We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified under
                     section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit
                     of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Group and its associate in accordance with
                     the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
                     our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
                     responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
                     sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.

                     Key audit matters

                     Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated
                     financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2021. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
                     consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
                     matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

                     We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled the
                     responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our report,
                     including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our
                     assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements.

                     The results of audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors of components not audited by us, as reported by them in their
                     audit reports furnished to us by the Management, including those procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the
                     basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

                     Key audit matters                                               How our audit addressed the key audit matter

                     Accounting for investments in open ended target maturity funds (‘Funds’)
                     The Holding Company has investments aggregating                Our audit procedures included the following:
                     H 2,320.75 crore in open ended target maturity funds as at     l Read the minutes of the Investment Committee meetings.
                     31 March 2021. These investments are ‘subsequently measured l Performed test of controls on a sample basis on the operating
                     at amortised cost’ based on fulfilment of Solely Payments of     effectiveness of internal controls related to accounting of investments.
                     Principal and Interest (‘SPPI’) test and business model        l Read the terms and conditions of scheme information document/key
                     requirement as per Ind AS 109 – ‘Financial instruments’.         information memorandum of the funds invested by the Holding Company.
                     These types of investments being significant during the year,  l Tested on a sample basis, the investments underlying the funds to assess
                     were an area of significant audit attention and hence has been   whether those investments would satisfy the conditions of amortised cost
                     considered as a key audit matter.                                accounting as per Ind AS 109.
                                                                                    l Read and assessed the related disclosures included in the consolidated

                                                                                      financial statements.
                                                                                    l Obtained Management representations relating to accounting for the
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                                                      investments in the funds.

                     We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.



                     180
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Other information

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Chairman’s Letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not
include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management for the consolidated financial statements

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial
statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated
financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement of changes in
equity of the Group including its associate in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the
assets of the Group and of its associate and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of
preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of
its associate are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of its associate to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either intends to
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are also responsible for overseeing
the financial reporting process of the Group and of its associate.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
consolidated financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout
the audit. We also:

l   Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design
    and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
    basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
    error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
                                                                                                                                             14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




l   Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
    circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding
    Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness
    of such controls.




                                                                                                                                      181
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
                     l     Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
                           made by Management.

                     l     Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
                           obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of
                           the Group and its associate to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to
                           draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are
                           inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
                           However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to cease to continue as a going concern.

                     l     Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures,
                           and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
                           fair presentation.

                     l     Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
                           Group and its associate of which we are the independent auditors and whose financial information we have audited, to express an
                           opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit
                           of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent
                           auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such
                           other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain
                           solely responsible for our audit opinion.

                     We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated
                     financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
                     audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

                     We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
                     regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
                     on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

                     From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
                     in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2021 and are therefore the key audit
                     matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
                     when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
                     consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

                     Other matter

                     We did not audit the financial statements and other financial information, in respect of two subsidiaries, whose financial
                     statements include total assets of H 8.48 Crore as at 31 March 2021, and total revenues of H 1.27 Crore and net cash inflows of
                     H 3.71 Crore for the year ended on that date. These financial statement and other financial information have been audited by other
                     auditors, the financial statements, other financial information and auditors’ reports of which have been furnished to us by the
                     Management. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of H 306.32 Crore for the year
                     ended 31 March 2021, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of an associate, whose financial statements,
                     other financial information have been audited by other auditor and whose report has been furnished to us by the Management.
                     Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of
                     these subsidiaries and associate, and our report in terms of sub-sections (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the
                     aforesaid subsidiaries and associate, is based solely on the reports of such other auditors.

                     The subsidiaries and associate are located outside India whose financial statements and other financial information have been
                     prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries and which have been audited
                     by other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries. The Holding Company’s
                     Management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India from accounting
                     principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have audited these
                     conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company’s Management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs
                     of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India is based on the report of other auditors and the conversion adjustments
                     prepared by the Management of the Holding Company and audited by us.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on other legal and regulatory requirements below,
                     is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.




                     182
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on separate
financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries and associate, as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph we
report, to the extent applicable, that:

(a) We/the other auditors whose report we have relied upon have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the
    best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of the audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;

(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidation of the financial
    statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and reports of the other auditors;

(c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive
    Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in
    agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements;

(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
    Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2021 taken on
    record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, none of the directors of the Holding Company is disqualified as on
    31 March 2021 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act. The Holding Company did not have any
    subsidiaries or an associate company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India;

(f) With respect to the adequacy and the operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated
    financial statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies and associate company, since none of the
    subsidiary companies and associate company are incorporated in India, no separate report is being issued with reference to
    these consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. Also, refer Annexure 2 to the independent auditors’ report
    dated 29 April 2021, issued on the standalone financial statements of the Holding Company regarding Internal controls over
    financial reporting;

(g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2021 has been paid/provided by the Holding Company
    to its directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. The Holding Company did not
    have any subsidiaries or an associate company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India;

(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and
    Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to
    us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial statements as also the other financial
    information of the subsidiaries and associate, as noted in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:

   i.   The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on its consolidated financial position of
        the Group and its associate in its consolidated financial statements – refer note 32 to the consolidated financial statements;

   ii. Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting
       standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – refer note 32 to
       the consolidated financial statements;

   iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund
        by the Holding Company during the year ended 31 March 2021. The Holding Company did not have any subsidiaries or an
        associate company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
                                                                                                                                            14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 21089802AAAAAY5729
Pune: 29 April 2021




                                                                                                                                      183
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Consolidated Balance Sheet
                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                             As at 31 March
                     Particulars                              Note No.       2021               2020



                     ASSETS
                     Non-current assets
                     Property, plant and equipment               2         1,567.95       1,602.03
                     Capital work-in-progress                    2           15.98              46.54
                     Investment property                         3           52.30              53.90
                     Intangible assets                           4           47.30              43.09
                     Intangible assets under development         4               –              13.65
                     Investments in associate of subsidiary      5A       3,288.96        2,950.89
                     Financial assets
                           Investments                           5B      13,369.58        14,182.94
                           Trade receivables                     10              –                  –
                           Loans                                 6           31.78              32.49
                           Other financial assets                7               –                3.13
                     Income tax assets (net)                                714.81             714.81
                     Other non-current assets                    8          325.39             250.53
                                                                         19,414.05      19,894.00


                     Current assets
                     Inventories                                 9        1,493.89        1,063.50
                     Financial assets
                           Investments                           5B       8,028.11            2,779.75
                           Trade receivables                     10       2,716.85            1,725.10
                           Cash and cash equivalents             11         516.61             285.40
                           Other bank balances                   12          22.23              30.94
                           Loans                                 6            5.74                6.11
                           Other financial assets                7          223.53              87.98
                     Other current assets                        8        1,180.70             637.24
                                                                         14,187.66        6,616.02
                                                                         33,601.71      26,510.02
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     184
                                                                                                             Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.               2021              2020



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                 13                 289.37            289.37
Other equity                                                                                         14              26,984.06        21,372.71
Equity attributable to owners of the Company                                                                        27,273.43        21,662.08
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                  0.01              0.01
Total equity                                                                                                        27,273.44        21,662.09


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                               15                 121.46            125.59
Provisions                                                                                           16                   1.98             80.50
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                       17                 522.14            346.38
Government grant                                                                                                         38.65             41.30
Other non-current liabilities                                                                        18                   0.50              0.83
                                                                                                                       684.73             594.60
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
		       Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                              121.20             13.73
		       Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                       4,452.91         3,186.09
    Other financial liabilities                                                                      19                 407.44            548.27
Other current liabilities                                                                            20                 482.82            328.88
Provisions                                                                                           16                 152.37            157.97
Government grant                                                                                                          2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                            24.15             15.74
                                                                                                                     5,643.54         4,253.33
                                                                                                                    33,601.71        26,510.02
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group                                     1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                            On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                       Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                        Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                 Soumen Ray                                            Rajiv Bajaj
                                                             Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director
                                                                                                                                                     14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                         Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 29 April 2021                                           Company Secretary                                       Vice Chairman




                                                                                                                                             185
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2021             2020



                     Revenue from contracts with customers                                                      27,132.90        29,111.54
                     Other operating revenue                                                                       608.18            807.11
                     Revenue from operations                                                         21         27,741.08        29,918.65
                     Other income                                                                    22          1,276.46         1,524.57
                     Total income                                                                              29,017.54        31,443.22


                     Expenses
                     Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              18,308.09        19,484.62
                     Purchase of traded goods                                                                    1,521.04         1,586.67
                     Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     23           (219.48)          (63.01)
                     Employee benefits expense                                                       24          1,288.10         1,390.81
                     Finance costs                                                                   25               6.66             3.16
                     Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           26            259.37           246.43
                     Other expenses                                                                  27          1,930.92         2,453.89
                     Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (12.27)          (29.97)
                     Total expenses                                                                            23,082.43        25,072.60


                     Share of profits of associate                                                                 306.32           321.51


                     Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     6,241.43        6,692.13


                     Exceptional items                                                               28                  –                  –


                     Profit before tax                                                                           6,241.43        6,692.13


                     Tax expense
                           Current tax                                                                           1,348.10         1,547.26
                           Deferred tax                                                                             36.31           (67.04)
                     Total tax expense                                                               29          1,384.41         1,480.22


                     Profit after tax                                                                            4,857.02        5,211.91


                     Profit attributable to non-controlling interest                                                     –                  –


                     Profit for the year                                                                         4,857.02        5,211.91
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     186
                                                                                                      Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                            For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                Note No.                2021             2020



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                             16.33           (37.95)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                            (4.11)            4.76
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans - share of associate of subsidiary                            2.80            (8.18)
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                           567.27          (550.03)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                          (65.71)           62.39
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                                   276.65          (221.11)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                          (69.63)           62.09
    Other adjustments - share of associate of subsidiary                                                         (63.60)            (3.14)
    Change in foreign currency translation reserve of subsidiary                                                  92.95           182.07
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                          752.95         (509.10)


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                        5,609.97        4,702.81


Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                          4,857.02          5,211.91
Non-controlling interest                                                                                               –                  –
                                                                                                               4,857.02          5,211.91
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                          5,609.97         4,702.81
Non-controlling interest                                                                                               –                  –
                                                                                                               5,609.97        4,702.81


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                                  30                    167.9            180.2
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group                              1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                    On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                 Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                 Soumen Ray                                     Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                         Managing Director
Partner
                                                                                                                                              14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                  Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 29 April 2021                                           Company Secretary                                Vice Chairman




                                                                                                                                      187
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
                     A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                   Note No.          2021             2020


                     At the beginning of the year                                  289.37           289.37
                     Changes in equity share capital                                     –                  –
                     At the end of the year                          13            289.37          289.37
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     188
                                                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Contd.)
B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                             Attributable to owners
                                             Reserves and surplus                                     Other reserves
                                                                                                  Foreign
                                                                                                exchange   Foreign                       Share
                                                                      Cash flow   Costs of  difference of currency                       based                              Non-
                                      Note    General    Retained      hedging    hedging subsidiary on translation        FVTOCI    payments    Treasury Total other controlling
Particulars                           No.     reserve    earnings       reserve   reserve paid-up capital  reserve        reserve      reserve     shares      equity    interest



Balance as at 31 March 2019           14     4,921.60   17,605.94        60.31     (17.47)         0.26       299.29        74.51           –           –    22,944.44           0.01
Profit for the year                                 –     5,211.91           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     5,211.91              –
Recognition of share based payments
to employees                                        –            –           –          –             –               –         –        10.01          –        10.01
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax)                                        –       (44.51)     (54.68)   (104.34)        (0.02)      182.09      (487.64)          –           –     (509.10)              –
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 March 2020                            –     5,167.40      (54.68)   (104.34)        (0.02)      182.09      (487.64)       10.01          –     4,712.82              –


Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to
General reserve                                510.00     (510.00)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –            –              –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                  –            –           –          –             –               –         –           –      (26.62)      (26.62)             –
Final dividend for the year ended
31 March 2019                                       –    (1,736.20)          –          –             –               –         –           –           –    (1,736.20)             –
Tax on final dividend as above                      –     (335.57)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     (335.57)              –
Interim dividend for the year ended
31 March 2020                                       –    (3,472.40)          –          –             –               –         –           –           –    (3,472.40)             –
Tax on interim dividend as above                    –     (713.76)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     (713.76)              –
Balance as at 31 March 2020           14     5,431.60   16,005.41          5.63   (121.81)         0.24       481.38      (413.13)      10.01      (26.62)   21,372.71            0.01


Profit for the year                                 –     4,857.02           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     4,857.02              –
Recognition of share based payments
to employees                                        –            –           –          –             –               –         –         6.90          –         6.90              –
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax)                                        –       (48.58)      143.27     63.75          0.03        92.92       501.56           –           –       752.95              –
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 March 2021                            –     4,808.44       143.27     63.75          0.03        92.92       501.56         6.90          –     5,616.87              –


Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to
General reserve                                456.00     (456.00)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –            –              –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                  –            –           –          –             –               –         –           –       (5.52)       (5.52)             –
Balance as at 31 March 2021           14     5,887.60   20,357.85       148.90     (58.06)         0.27       574.30        88.43       16.91     (32.14)    26,984.06           0.01
Summary of significant accounting
policies followed by the Group         1




The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                                                         On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                      Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                Soumen Ray                                                          Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                            Chief Financial Officer                                              Managing Director
                                                                                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                                       Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 29 April 2021                                                          Company Secretary                                                     Vice Chairman




                                                                                                                                                                                 189
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                    2021                            2020



                     I.    Operating activities
                              Profit before tax                                                                              6,241.43                        6,692.13
                              Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
                              Add:
                                   i) Depreciation and amortisation                                             259.37                          246.43
                                   ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
                                       discarded and scrapped                                                    13.10                           13.70
                               iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                    16.15                           22.01
                               iv) Share based payment to employees                                               6.90                           10.01
                                   v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                           1.19                           (2.16)
                               vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                     (6.01)                         (15.41)
                               vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                       0.10                           (1.98)
                              viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                       1.18                            1.06
                               ix) Interest expense                                                               5.48                             2.10
                                                                                                                               297.46                          275.76
                              Less:
                              i)     Investment income included in above:
                                         Interest income on fixed income securities                              65.77                           17.04
                                         Interest income on fixed deposits                                       17.87                           28.90
                                         Interest income on exchange traded funds                                76.85                                  –
                                         Interest income on fixed maturity plans                               842.51                           903.55
                                         Profit on sale of other investments, net                                15.74                           19.53
                                         Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured
                                         at fair value through profit or loss                                  254.25                           462.70
                                         Dividend income on other strategic investments                              –                           25.38
                                         Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of
                                         fixed income securities                                                 (5.57)                          18.24
                                                                                                              1,267.42                        1,475.34
                              ii) Share of profits of associate                                                306.32                           321.51
                              iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back (net)                      –                            0.54
                              iv) Government grants                                                               2.65                            2.65
                              v) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                 1.94                            5.28
                                                                                                                            (1,578.33)                      (1,805.32)
                                                                                                                             4,960.56                        5,162.57
                              Change in assets and liabilities
                                   i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                      (430.39)                         (101.99)
                                   ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                              (1,001.89)                         828.53
                               iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                             (551.88)                          398.53
                               iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                          1,483.52                        (759.28)
                                                                                                                             (500.64)                          365.79
                              Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                               (0.35)                          (0.26)
                              Net cash flow from operating activities before income tax                                      4,459.57                        5,528.10
                                     Income tax paid                                                                        (1,339.69)                      (1,677.66)
                           Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                                 3,119.88                       3,850.44
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                                                                           Carried forward                    3,119.88                       3,850.44




                     190
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2021                            2020



                                                                 Brought forward                    3,119.88                      3,850.44
II. Investing activities
          i) Sale of investments                                                    3,555.72                        5,178.94
         ii) Purchase of investments                                               (5,888.39)                      (3,517.96)
        iii) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                       (351.28)                         166.96
        iv) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                                (5.52)                         (26.62)
         v) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                  8.71                          (13.51)
        vi) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)          (244.06)                        (282.81)
        vii) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment                             5.71                           16.74
       viii) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                 (15.53)                         (13.93)
                                                                                   (2,934.64)                       1,507.81
        ix) Investment income
              Interest income on fixed income securities                               65.77                           17.04
              Interest income on fixed deposits                                        17.87                           28.90
              Dividend income on other strategic investments                               –                           25.38
                                                                                       83.64                           71.32
              (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                              (17.36)                         (23.04)
                                                                                       66.28                           48.28


   Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                             (2,868.36)                      1,556.09


                                                                 Carried forward                     251.52                       5,406.53




                                                                                                                                                14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                        191
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                  2021                            2020



                                                                                           Brought forward                   251.52                        5,406.53
                     III. Financing activities
                                i) Interest expense                                                            (5.48)                          (2.10)
                                ii) Deferral of sales tax deferral liability due to assessment                 (5.31)                                 –
                               iii) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                                  (8.73)                      (5,195.10)
                               iv) Corporate dividend tax paid                                                     –                       (1,049.31)


                           Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                (19.52)                       (6,246.51)


                     IV. Change in foreign currency translation arising on consolidation                                       0.40                          207.58


                           Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                           232.40                        (632.40)


                           Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                            285.40                          915.64
                           Add/(Less): Effects of exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                            (1.19)                           2.16
                           Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                                    516.61                          285.40



                     As per our report of even date                                                                            On behalf of the Board of Directors


                     For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                           Rahul Bajaj
                     Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                            Chairman
                     ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                          Soumen Ray                                       Rajiv Bajaj
                     per Arvind Sethi                                                Chief Financial Officer                            Managing Director
                     Partner
                     Membership Number: 89802                                           Dr. J Sridhar                                     Madhur Bajaj
                     Pune: 29 April 2021                                              Company Secretary                                   Vice Chairman
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     192
                                                                                                          Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021

Corporate information

Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged in
the business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles, electric
two-wheelers etc. and parts thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets.
The registered office of the Company is located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 March 2021. The consolidated financial statements were approved for issue in
accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company on 29 April 2021.

The consolidated financial statements include results of the subsidiaries of Bajaj Auto Ltd., consolidated in accordance with Ind AS
110 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and Ind AS 28 ‘Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures’.
                                              Country of           % Shareholding of      % Shareholding of
Name of the Company                           Incorporation        Bajaj Auto Ltd.        Non-controlling interest      Consolidated as



PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                      Indonesia            99.25%                 0.75%                         Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV          Netherlands          100.00%                –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                    Thailand             100.00%                –                             Subsidiary

The consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV include 47.99% interest in KTM AG as an associate.

1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group

Basis of preparation

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from
time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
(including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value.

The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition of
assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Group has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months
for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

Significant accounting policies

This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

1   Basis of consolidation

    The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries, being the entities
    that it controls. Control is evidenced where the Group has power over the investee or is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns
    from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Power is
    demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, which significantly affect the entity returns.
                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




    The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company. Where necessary,
    adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies in line with accounting policies of
    the Group. For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit/loss for the financial year and net assets is attributed to the non-
    controlling interests as shown in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss and consolidated Balance Sheet. For acquisitions
    of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises a reduction to the non-controlling
    interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid, inclusive of transaction fees, being
    recognised in equity. In addition, upon dilution of controlling interests the difference between the cash received from sale or listing


                                                                                                                                        193
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                           of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised in equity. The financial statements of
                           subsidiaries acquired or disposed off during the year are included in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss from the effective
                           date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised
                           income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
                           Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered. The financial statements of Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. are
                           prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial statements.

                     2     Investment in associates

                           Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a
                           position to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies. The considerations made in determining whether
                           significant influence is being exercised are similar to those necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries. Goodwill arising
                           on the acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associate.

                           The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in
                           an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s
                           share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying
                           amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually.

                           The Statement of Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate. Any change in OCI of
                           those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the
                           equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
                           Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the
                           interest in the associate.

                           If an entity’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate (which includes any long term interest
                           that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the entity discontinues recognising its share of
                           further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or
                           made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share
                           of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.

                           The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate is shown on the face of the Statement of Profit and Loss.

                           The financial statements of the associate are prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial
                           statements. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. The Group
                           has not identified any material adjustments during the year; in regard to the alignment of accounting policies.

                           After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its
                           investment in its associate. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment
                           in the associate is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between
                           the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

                           Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair
                           value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the
                           retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.

                     3     Foreign currencies

                           The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the parent company’s functional currency.
                           For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity
                           are measured using that functional currency. The Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign
                           operation the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method.

                           Transactions and balances

                           Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group entities at their respective functional currency spot rates
                           at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. However, for practical reasons, the group uses an average rate if the
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                           average approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction.

                           Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange
                           at the reporting date.


                     194
                                                                                                           Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
    Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss with
    the exception of the following:

    Exchange differences arising on monetary items that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are
    recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the individual financial
    statements of the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the financial statements that include the foreign operation and the
    reporting entity (e.g., consolidated financial statements when the foreign operation is a subsidiary), such exchange differences
    are recognised initially in Statement of Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’). These exchange differences are reclassified from
    equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.

    Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those monetary items are also recorded in OCI.

    Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate
    at the date of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using
    the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items
    measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of item (i.e. translation
    differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in OCI or Statement of Profit and Loss are also recognised in OCI
    or Statement of Profit and Loss, respectively).

    Group companies

    On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into INR at the rate of exchange prevailing
    at the reporting date and their Statement of Profit and Loss are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
    transactions. For practical reasons, the Group uses an average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate
    approximates the exchange rate at the date of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation
    are recognised in OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is
    recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.

    Any goodwill arising in the acquisition/business combination of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustment to the carrying
    amount of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and
    translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.

    Gain or loss on a subsequent disposal of any foreign operation excludes translation differences that arose before the date of
    transition but includes only translation differences arising after the transition date.

4   Taxation

    a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
       authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at
       the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.

    b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss is recognised outside Statement of
       Profit and Loss (either in OCI or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either
       in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in
       which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

    c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
       liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
       enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
       asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

       Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
       future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.
                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




    d) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets
       against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.

5   Other significant accounting policies

    Other significant accounting policies followed by the Group are exactly similar to the significant accounting policies of the parent,
    Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been reproduced here. Refer note 1 of standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. for
    the year ended 31 March 2021 for details in regard to other significant accounting policies.

                                                                                                                                         195
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     2 Property, plant and equipment
                       Current year
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                           Gross block                                        Depreciation                          Net block
                                                               As at                                  As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                             1 April               Deductions/    31 March     1 April                            For   31 March       31 March
                     Particulars                               2020    Additions   adjustments        2021       2020    Deductions          the year       2021           2021



                     Land freehold                             19.97          –              –        19.97         –            –                 –           –           19.97
                     Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)      47.93          –            0.65      47.28          –            –                 –           –           47.28
                     Buildings                                940.49      35.51              –      976.00      338.37           –             22.42      360.79          615.21
                     Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains          17.39        0.35             –        17.74      13.54           –               0.76      14.30            3.44
                     Plant and machinery                    1,361.60      25.40           18.06    1,368.94   1,016.80        13.37            60.83    1,064.26         304.68
                     Computers and IT Equipment                81.58        3.13           0.29      84.42       73.90         0.29              4.75      78.36            6.06
                     Dies and jigs                            573.44      98.30           10.56      661.18     342.18         8.86            68.65      401.97          259.21
                     Electric installations                    74.29        0.01             –       74.30       70.04           –               1.40      71.44            2.86
                     Factory equipment                        414.61      26.03            1.36     439.28      218.07         0.95            26.90      244.02          195.26
                     Furniture                                 42.16        2.63           0.32      44.47       25.96         0.31              3.05      28.70           15.77
                     Office equipment                          45.65        9.68           0.43      54.90       36.46         0.43              2.69      38.72           16.18
                     Electric fittings                         33.16        3.80           0.15      36.81       25.02         0.15              1.82      26.69           10.12
                     Vehicles and aircraft                    369.01      10.74           23.25     356.50      258.91        13.20            38.88      284.59           71.91
                     Total                                  4,021.28     215.58           55.07   4,181.79    2,419.25       37.56            232.15    2,613.84       1,567.95


                     Capital work-in-progress                 46.54       14.45           45.01      15.98          –            –                 –           –          15.98




                             Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                           Gross block                                        Depreciation                          Net block
                                                               As at                                  As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                             1 April               Deductions/    31 March     1 April                            For   31 March       31 March
                     Particulars                               2019    Additions   adjustments        2020       2019    Deductions          the year       2020           2020



                     Land freehold                             19.97          –              –       19.97          –            –                 –           –           19.97
                     Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)      52.39          –            4.46      47.93          –            –                 –           –           47.93
                     Buildings                                932.10        8.39             –      940.49      312.94           –             25.43      338.37          602.12
                     Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains          17.36        0.03             –       17.39       12.76           –               0.78      13.54            3.85
                     Plant and machinery                    1,364.15      27.22           29.77    1,361.60     978.74        23.42            61.48     1,016.80         344.80
                     Computers and IT Equipment                77.50        4.11           0.03      81.58       68.27         0.03              5.66      73.90            7.68
                     Dies and jigs                            778.38      73.30          278.24     573.44      554.77       273.54            60.95      342.18          231.26
                     Electric installations                    74.29          –              –       74.29       68.53           –               1.51      70.04            4.25
                     Factory equipment                        401.00      22.89            9.28     414.61      199.64         7.50            25.93      218.07          196.54
                     Furniture                                 40.83        1.55           0.22      42.16       22.80         0.17              3.33      25.96           16.20
                     Office equipment                          45.26        2.46           2.07      45.65       35.43         2.05              3.08      36.46            9.19
                     Electric fittings                         31.81        1.50           0.15      33.16       23.43         0.14              1.73      25.02            8.14
                     Vehicles and aircraft                    361.31      28.46           20.76     369.01      230.35        12.32            40.88      258.91          110.10
                     Total                                  4,196.35     169.91          344.98   4,021.28    2,507.66      319.17            230.76    2,419.25        1,602.03


                     Capital work-in-progress                 11.54       42.78            7.78      46.54          –            –                 –           –          46.54
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     196
                                                                                                                                 Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2021               2020



Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                                                   69.66              69.66
Additions                                                                                                                                              –                    –
Closing balance                                                                                                                                   69.66              69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                                                   15.76              14.16
Depreciation charge                                                                                                                                1.60               1.60
Closing balance                                                                                                                                   17.36              15.76
Net carrying amount                                                                                                                               52.30              53.90
See note 3 of standalone financial statements for the following disclosures in regard to investment property:
i) Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
ii) Contractual obligations
iii) Leasing arrangements
iv) Fair value



4 Intangible assets
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                               Gross block                                               Amortisation                           Net block
                                                As at                                        As at          As at                                       As at          As at
                                              1 April                   Deductions/      31 March         1 April                       For the     31 March       31 March
Particulars                                     2020       Additions    adjustments          2021           2020    Deductions            year          2021           2021



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired          66.38           29.18              –         95.56          23.29            –            24.97         48.26           47.30


Total intangible assets                        66.38           29.18              –         95.56          23.29            –            24.97         48.26          47.30


Intangible assets under development            13.65           15.53          29.18             –               –           –                –             –                –



      Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                               Gross block                                               Amortisation                           Net block
                                                As at                                        As at          As at                                       As at          As at
                                              1 April                   Deductions/      31 March         1 April                       For the     31 March       31 March
Particulars                                     2019       Additions    adjustments          2020           2019    Deductions            year          2020           2020



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired          29.62           36.76              –          66.38          9.87            –            13.42         23.29           43.09


Total intangible assets                        29.62           36.76              –         66.38           9.87            –            13.42         23.29          43.09
                                                                                                                                                                                14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Intangible assets under development            36.48           13.93          36.76         13.65               –           –                –             –          13.65




                                                                                                                                                                       197
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     5 Investments
                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          Non-current investments                  Current investments
                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                  2021                2020               2021               2020



                     (A) Investments in associate of subsidiary
                           5,204,864 shares of Euro 100 each in KTM AG                                                         2,611.55           2,297.02                    –                    –
                           Goodwill on above investment                                                                          677.41             653.87                    –                    –
                                                                                                                              3,288.96            2,950.89                    –                    –


                     (B) Other investments
                     Investments carried at FVTOCI
                           In Shares                                                                                           1,274.23             700.99                    –                    –
                     Investments carried at amortised cost
                           In Government bonds and securities                                                                    659.54                    –                  –                    –
                           In Bonds and debentures                                                                            1,803.30              231.13                    –                    –
                           In Fixed deposits                                                                                           –            100.00              107.84            700.00
                           In Exchange traded funds                                                                           2,320.75                     –                  –                    –
                           In Fixed maturity plans                                                                             3,614.56          10,157.25           7,360.80            1,905.68


                     Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
                           In Mutual fund units                                                                               3,697.20            2,993.57             559.47              174.07
                                                                                                                             13,369.58           14,182.94           8,028.11            2,779.75
                                                                                                                             16,658.54           17,133.83           8,028.11            2,779.75
                     Notes to Investments:
                     1. See note 5B of standalone financial statements for details of ‘Other investments’.
                     2. See footnotes to note 5 of standalone financial statements.



                     6 Loans
                       (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                                  Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                  2021                2020               2021               2020



                     Security deposits                                                                                            26.56              26.28                    –                    –
                     Employee loans                                                                                                5.22                6.21                5.74                  6.11
                                                                                                                                  31.78              32.49                 5.74                  6.11
                     Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
                     jointly and severally. [See note 33]							
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     198
                                                                                       Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                   Non-current                       Current
                                                                   As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                        2021              2020          2021              2020



Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                                –              0.02             –                 –
Interest receivable on investments                                     –              3.11         50.04             29.57
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                            –                –           0.72              0.68
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 32]        –                –         121.39                 –
Other advances                                                         –                –          51.38             57.73
                                                                       –              3.13        223.53             87.98


8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                   Non-current                       Current
                                                                   As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                        2021              2020          2021              2020



Capital advances                                                  238.83            179.80             –                 –
Security deposits                                                   6.65              6.62             –                 –
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
    Advances to related parties [See note 33]                          –                –           8.81              8.44
    Other advances                                                 23.79             24.33        216.08            104.55
    Doubtful advances                                               8.13              8.14             –                 –
                                                                   31.92             32.47        224.89            112.99
    Provision for doubtful advances                                 8.13              8.14             –                 –
                                                                   23.79             24.33        224.89            112.99
Gratuity asset [See note 37 of standalone financial statements]    16.34                –              –                 –
VAT refund receivable                                              39.78             39.78        130.31            135.61
GST credit/refund receivable                                           –                –         764.33            241.02
Export incentives receivable
    Unsecured considered good                                          –                –           61.17           147.62
    Doubtful                                                        0.21              0.21             –                 –
                                                                    0.21              0.21          61.17           147.62
    Provision for doubtful export incentives                        0.21              0.21             –                 –
                                                                       –                –           61.17           147.62
                                                                  325.39            250.53      1,180.70            637.24
                                                                                                                              14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                      199
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                              As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                               2021              2020



                     Raw materials and components [includes in transit H 84.31 crore (previous year H 90.74 crore)]                          664.26             461.44
                     Work-in-progress                                                                                                         85.50              57.60
                     Finished goods                                                                                                          714.36             522.78
                     Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                      27.07              20.43
                     Loose tools                                                                                                                2.70              1.25
                                                                                                                                           1,493.89         1,063.50

                     Amount recognised in profit and loss
                     Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 47.75 crore
                     [Previous year – H 40.27 crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.


                     10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              Non-current                        Current
                                                                                                              As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                               2021            2020            2021              2020



                     Unsecured, considered good                                                                    –               –       2,716.85            1,725.10
                     Credit impaired                                                                           44.10           28.21               –                 –
                                                                                                               44.10           28.21       2,716.85            1,725.10
                     Impairment allowance for credit impaired [See note 32]                                    44.10           28.21               –                 –
                                                                                                                   –               –       2,716.85         1,725.10


                     11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                                              As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                               2021              2020



                     Balances with banks                                                                                                     516.58             285.31
                     Cash on hand                                                                                                              0.03               0.09
                                                                                                                                             516.61             285.40
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     200
                                                                                                            Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Non-current                       Current
                                                                                       As at 31 March                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                             2021             2020           2021              2020


Unclaimed dividend accounts                                                                 –                –          22.21             30.94
Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months                                 –             0.02              –                 –
Deposits with residual maturity for less than twelve months                                 –                –           0.02                 –
                                                                                            –             0.02          22.23             30.94
Amount disclosed under ‘other financial assets’ [See note 7]                                –            (0.02)             –                 –
                                                                                            –                –          22.23             30.94


13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2021              2020



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                 300.00            300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                 289.37            289.37
                                                                                                                       289.37            289.37


a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2021              As at 31 March 2020
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      D In Crore            Nos.       D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                     289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020            289.37
Issued during the year                                                                      –                –              –                 –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                               289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020            289.37


b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

   The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to
   one vote per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors
   and approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
   the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
   The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.						


c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2021              As at 31 March 2020
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      % Holding             Nos.       % Holding
                                                                                                                                                   14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Equity shares of D 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                  96,727,050            33.43%     96,727,050            33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                           26,281,400             9.08%     26,281,400             9.08%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                               22,997,485             7.95%     15,730,820             5.44%



                                                                                                                                            201
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     14 Other equity
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                 2021              2020



                     Reserves and surplus:
                     General reserve
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                  5,431.60       4,921.60
                     Add: Transferred from surplus in the Statement of Profit and Loss                         456.00             510.00
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                        5,887.60       5,431.60


                     Retained earnings
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                 16,005.41      17,605.94
                     Profit for the year                                                                      4,857.02           5,211.91
                     Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
                           Actuarial gains/(losses) of gratuity (net of tax)                                     12.22            (33.19)
                           Adjustments on account of change in share of net assets of associate/subsidiary     (60.80)            (11.32)
                     Less: Appropriations
                           Transfer to General reserve                                                         456.00             510.00
                           Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2019                                           –       1,736.20
                           Tax on final dividend as above                                                            –            335.57
                           Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020                                         –       3,472.40
                           Tax on interim dividend as above                                                          –            713.76
                     Total appropriations                                                                      456.00            6,767.93
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                       20,357.85      16,005.41


                     Other reserves:
                     Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 32 of standalone financial statements]                148.90               5.63
                     Costs of hedging reserve [See note 32 of standalone financial statements]                 (58.06)           (121.81)
                     Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid-up capital                                 0.27              0.24
                     Foreign currency translation reserve                                                      574.30             481.38


                     FVTOCI reserve
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                   (413.13)            74.51
                     Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                            501.56            (487.64)
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                          88.43            (413.13)


                     Share based payment reserve
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                     10.01                 –
                     Add: Recognised during the year                                                              6.90             10.01
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                           16.91             10.01


                     Treasury shares
                     Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                   (26.62)                 –
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     Add: Changes during the year                                                                (5.52)           (26.62)
                     Balance as at the end of the year                                                          (32.14)           (26.62)
                                                                                                             26,984.06      21,372.71



                     202
                                                                                                                                  Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
14 Other equity (Contd.)
Nature and purpose of reserve:

General reserve

General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the
Companies Act, 2013. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Retained earnings

Retained earnings is a free reserve. This is the accumulated profit earned by the Company till date, less transfer to general reserve,
dividend (including dividend distribution tax) and other distributions made to the shareholders.

Cash flow hedging reserve and Costs of hedging reserve

It represents the effective portion of the fair value of forward/option contracts designated as cashflow hedge.

Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid-up capital

This reserve represents the foreign exchange difference due to rate on the date of receipt vis-à-vis date of share certificate issued.

Foreign currency translation reserve

This reserve represents the foreign exchange differences on converting subsidiaries financials into INR, including other adjustments
on consolidation.

FVTOCI reserve

The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive
income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity.

Share based payment reserve

Share based payment reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 ‘Share Based Payments’ on the employee stock option scheme
operated by the Company for its employees.

Treasury shares

The reserve for shares of the Company held by the Bajaj Auto ESOP Trust (ESOP Trust). Company has issued employees stock option
scheme for its employees. The equity shares of the Company have been purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to issue and allot to
employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.


15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2021                2020



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                 121.46              125.59
                                                                                                                                                 121.46              125.59
                                                                                                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. [See note 32]




                                                                                                                                                                       203
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                Non-current                       Current
                                                                                                                                As at 31 March                 As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                 2021               2020        2021             2020



                     Provision for employee benefits
                     [See note 37 of standalone financial statements]
                     Provision for gratuity                                                                                           –             77.94          –                  –
                     Provision for compensated absences                                                                               –                  –     129.66           134.81
                     Provision for welfare scheme                                                                                 1.98               2.56        0.67             0.52
                                                                                                                                  1.98              80.50      130.33           135.33
                     Other provisions
                     Provision for warranties
                     [See footnote to note 16 of standalone financial statements]                                                     –                  –      22.04            22.64
                                                                                                                                  1.98              80.50      152.37           157.97


                     17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                               As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                                                2021             2020



                     Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                  620.73           522.46
                     Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                        98.59           176.08
                                                                                                                                                               522.14           346.38
                     See note 17 of standalone financial statements for detailed break-up of deferred tax liabilities/assets and movement in deferred taxes.


                     18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                               As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                                                2021             2020



                     Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                                                0.50             0.83
                                                                                                                                                                 0.50             0.83


                     19 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                               As at 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                                                2021             2020



                     Security deposits                                                                                                                          21.50            24.52
                     Unclaimed dividend                                                                                                                         22.21            30.94
                     Valuation losses on derivative hedging instruments [See note 32]                                                                              –            155.26
                     Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                                                                             32.00            34.82
                     Employee benefits payable                                                                                                                 178.55           172.09
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     Other payables                                                                                                                            153.18           130.64
                                                                                                                                                               407.44           548.27
                     Refer note 31 of standalone financial statements for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.



                     204
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
20 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                          2021              2020



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                          0.39              0.41
Advance received from customers                                                                                    408.03             254.13
Taxes and duties payable                                                                                             47.05             46.29
Other payables                                                                                                      27.35              28.05
                                                                                                                   482.82             328.88


21 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                          2021              2020



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products                                                                                                27,132.90        29,111.54


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                          18.67             18.14
Export incentives                                                                                                  245.59             458.59
Royalty                                                                                                            153.20             161.59
Technical know how fees                                                                                                  –              2.02
Rent [See note 39 of standalone financial statements]                                                               29.45              31.88
Insurance claims                                                                                                      0.25              0.48
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                              55.08              72.75
Government grants                                                                                                     2.65              2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                   103.29              59.01
                                                                                                                   608.18             807.11
                                                                                                                27,741.08        29,918.65


Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                           14,445.62        16,895.61
Outside India                                                                                                   12,687.28        12,215.93
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                     27,132.90        29,111.54


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                 27,374.31        29,410.26
Adjustments:
                                                                                                                                                14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




    Cash discounts & target incentives                                                                            (183.94)           (184.59)
    Sales promotion expenses                                                                                       (57.47)           (114.13)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                           27,132.90        29,111.54




                                                                                                                                         205
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     22 Other income
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                      2021                2020



                     Investment income
                     Interest income on fixed income securities                                                       65.77               17.04
                     Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                     (5.57)              18.24
                     Interest income on fixed deposits                                                                17.87               28.90
                     Interest income on exchange traded funds                                                         76.85                    –
                     Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                        842.51              903.55
                     Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                        997.43              967.73


                     Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                       –              25.38


                     Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                            254.25              462.70
                     Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                         15.74               19.53
                                                                                                                   1,267.42           1,475.34
                     Others
                     Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                  1.94                5.28
                     Tax refunds/credits                                                                               7.10                0.05
                     Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                       –               43.90
                                                                                                                       9.04               49.23
                                                                                                                   1,276.46           1,524.57


                     23 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March
                                                                                                                                (Increase)/
                     Particulars                                                                      2021            2020        decrease


                     Inventories at the end of the year
                     Work-in-progress                                                                 85.50           57.60             (27.90)
                     Finished goods                                                                  714.36         522.78             (191.58)
                                                                                                     799.86         580.38             (219.48)
                     Inventories at the beginning of the year
                     Work-in-progress                                                                 57.60           46.96             (10.64)
                     Finished goods                                                                  522.78          470.41             (52.37)
                                                                                                    580.38           517.37             (63.01)
                                                                                                    (219.48)        (63.01)
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     206
                                                                                 Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)

24 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                   2021             2020



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees                                                     1,137.33        1,200.76
Contribution to provident and other funds                                                     61.32           92.23
Share based payment to employees                                                               6.90            10.01
Staff welfare expenses                                                                       82.55             87.81
                                                                                          1,288.10         1,390.81
See note 37 and 38 of standalone financial statements.


25 Finance costs
                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                   2021             2020



Interest expense                                                                               5.48             2.10
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                        1.18             1.06
                                                                                               6.66             3.16


26 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                   2021             2020



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                               232.15           230.76
Depreciation on investment property                                                            1.60             1.60
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                           24.97             13.42
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                 0.65             0.65
                                                                                            259.37           246.43
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                 207
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     27 Other expenses
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                             2021             2020



                     Stores and tools consumed                                                                             116.05           130.17
                     Power, fuel and water                                                                                  91.34           116.57
                     Rent                                                                                                    17.76            16.05
                     Repairs to buildings                                                                                    30.12            56.78
                     Repairs to machinery                                                                                    72.74          125.03
                     Other repairs                                                                                           13.96            11.47
                     Insurance                                                                                                6.57             3.25
                     Rates and taxes                                                                                        24.46              7.49
                     Payment to auditor                                                                                       1.85             1.91
                     Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                  0.99              1.14
                     Commission to non-executive directors                                                                    6.98             3.05
                     Travelling expenses                                                                                      5.75            77.29
                     Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                395.79           423.45
                     Loss on exchange fluctuations                                                                          22.73                   –
                     Packing material consumed                                                                             364.24           375.38
                     Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                       204.53           178.08
                     Advertisement                                                                                         247.91           488.27
                     Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                            103.66           133.44
                     Sales promotion expenses                                                                               42.37           115.20
                     Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                          3.00           34.50
                     Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                  128.25           119.44
                     Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                             0.62             0.22
                     Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                          13.10            13.70
                     Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)          16.15            22.01
                                                                                                                         1,930.92         2,453.89


                     28 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                             2021             2020



                     No exceptional items for both the periods                                                                   –                  –
                                                                                                                                 –                  –
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     208
                                                                                              Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
29 Tax expense
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                2021             2020



(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                                    1,348.10         1,547.26


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                                 (3.17)            9.41
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                           39.48           (76.45)
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                                      36.31           (67.04)


Tax expense                                                                                            1,384.41         1,480.22


(b) Reconciliation of tax expenses and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                      6,241.43         6,692.13
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year - 25.168%)                                        1,570.84         1,684.28
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                                       33.04             15.47
    –   Disallowance of estimated expenditure to earn tax exempt income                                        –             6.13
    –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                        (0.47)             1.40
    –   Rate difference on account of fair value of mutual funds                                               –            15.09
    –   Others                                                                                              1.73             1.81


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Profits of subsidiaries not taxable in India                                                      (76.11)         (28.18)
    –   Reversal in deferred tax due to tax rate reduction                                                     –          (81.97)
    –   Tax-free interest                                                                                  (0.16)           (2.72)
    –   Difference in tax rate on account of dividend received from subsidiary                                 –          (16.74)
    –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                              –           (6.39)
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                                (64.93)          (60.01)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                       (78.54)          (46.85)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                                     (0.99)            (1.10)
Tax expense                                                                                            1,384.41         1,480.22
                                                                                                                                      14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                              209
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     30 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March
                     Particulars                                                                                                        2021             2020



                     a     Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                          4,857.02         5,211.91
                           Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                   289,367,020       289,367,020
                           Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)                     122,242            99,750
                           Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                               289,244,778       289,267,270
                     b     Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                     167.9            180.2
                           Face value per share H                                                                                        10.0             10.0


                     31 Notes to these consolidated financial statements are intended to serve as a means of informative disclosure and a guide to better
                           understanding of the consolidated position of the companies. Recognising this purpose, the Group has disclosed only such notes
                           from the individual financial statements, which fairly present the needed disclosures.

                     32 Other disclosures
                     Other notes and disclosures to be inserted in the consolidated financial statements are similar to those of standalone financial
                     statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been repeated here.

                     The relevant note references in the standalone financial statements are given below:
                                                                                                                                     Note Reference of
                                                                                                                                     standalone financial
                     Particulars                                                                                                     statements



                     Fair value measurement                                                                                          Note 31
                     Financial risk management                                                                                       Note 32
                     Capital management                                                                                              Note 33 (a)
                     Dividends distributed and proposed                                                                              Note 33 (b)
                     Contingent liabilities                                                                                          Note 34
                     Capital commitments                                                                                             Note 35
                     Employee benefits                                                                                               Note 37
                     Lease                                                                                                           Note 39
                     Research and Development                                                                                        Note 40
                     Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)                                                              Note 41
                     Estimation of uncertainties relating to COVID-19                                                                Note 42
                     Dues to micro, small and medium enterprises                                                                     Note 43

                     There are no changes arising out of inclusion of the subsidiaries/associate amounts in the above disclosures.

                     33 Consolidated related party transactions are same as related party transactions of standalone Bajaj Auto Ltd.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     210
                                                                                                           Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
34 Investment in an associate
The Group has a 47.99% interest in KTM AG, Austria which is engaged in the development, production and distribution of motorised
vehicles under the ‘KTM’ and ‘Husqvarna’ brands; and holds equity interests in other entities engaging in development, production
and distribution of such equipment. Major sale markets include the USA, Germany, France, Australia , the UK, Italy, Spain, Canada,
Austria, Argentina and other European countries.

KTM AG is a private entity that is not listed on any public exchange. The Group’s interest is in KTM AG.

The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in KTM AG (in Euro, which is its
functional currency):
                                                                                                                              (Euro in Million)
Particulars                                                                                  31 December 2020            31 December 2019



Current assets                                                                                              666.37                     661.61
Non-current assets                                                                                           911.20                   830.60
Current liabilities                                                                                          391.75                   340.30
Non-current liabilities                                                                                     550.85                    546.00
Equity                                                                                                      634.97                    605.91


Revenue                                                                                                    1,413.98                 1,512.88
Cost of sales                                                                                          (1,012.77)                  (1,072.41)
Gross profit                                                                                                401.21                    440.47
Selling and racing expenses                                                                                (192.30)                  (215.32)
Research and development expenses                                                                            (15.49)                   (19.93)
Infrastructure and administration expenses                                                                  (86.60)                   (82.81)
Other operating expenses                                                                                      (0.29)                    (1.42)
Other operating income                                                                                         0.13                      1.02
Share of profit of associates                                                                                 (1.36)                    (0.72)
Result from operating activities                                                                            105.30                    121.29
Interest income                                                                                                1.52                      2.89
Interest expenses                                                                                            (12.98)                  (14.96)
Other financial result                                                                                        (3.15)                    (0.41)
Profit before tax                                                                                            90.69                    108.81
Tax expense                                                                                                  (19.48)                  (24.16)
Profit for the year (continuing operations)                                                                   71.21                    84.65
Total comprehensive income for the year (continuing operations)                                               67.92                    82.82
The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments.
                                                                                                                                                  14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                          211
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     35 Segment information
                     Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
                     Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2021
                     The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
                     perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
                     derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
                     hence considered as individual operative segments.
                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)

                     (a) Business segment
                     Particulars                                                                            Automotive     Investments     Consolidated


                     Revenue
                     External sales and other income*                                                          27,750.12        1,267.42      29,017.54
                     Inter segment sales and other income                                                             –               –                  –
                     Total revenue                                                                           27,750.12         1,267.42      29,017.54
                     * includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 27,132.90 crore


                     Segment result                                                                            4,983.82        1,264.27        6,248.09
                     Finance costs                                                                                 6.66               –             6.66
                     Tax expense                                                                                      –               –        1,384.41
                     Non-controlling interest                                                                         –               –                  –
                     Profit for the year                                                                       4,977.16        1,264.27        4,857.02

                     Segment assets                                                                            8,097.89       21,500.05       29,597.94
                     Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                    3,288.96               –        3,288.96
                     Unallocated corporate assets                                                                     –               –          714.81
                     Total assets                                                                             11,386.85       21,500.05       33,601.71

                     Segment liabilities                                                                        5,619.22              –        5,619.22
                     Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                                –               –            24.15
                     Total liabilities                                                                         5,619.22               –        5,643.37

                     Capital employed                                                                          5,767.63      21,500.05       27,958.34

                     Reconciliation of segment liabilities
                     Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                        5,643.37
                     Add: Considered as part of capital employed
                     		 Sales tax deferral                                                                                                       121.46
                     		 Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                 522.14
                     		 Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                                 41.30
                     Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                                    6,328.27

                     Capital expenditure                                                                         215.58               –          215.58
                     Depreciation and write downs                                                                259.37               –          259.37
                     Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                                    16.15               –            16.15

                     (b) Geographic segment
                                                                                                                                Rest of
                     Particulars                                                                                   India      the world    Consolidated
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     Segment revenue: External sales and other income                                         16,330.26       12,687.28       29,017.54
                     Segment assets                                                                           29,151.11        4,450.60       33,601.71
                     Capital expenditure                                                                         212.83            2.75          215.58


                     212
                                                                                      Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
35 Segment information (Contd.)
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2020
                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                             Automotive       Investments     Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                          29,967.88           1,475.34       31,443.22
Inter segment sales and other income                                             –                   –                 –
Total revenue                                                            29,967.88           1,475.34       31,443.22
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 29,111.54 crore


Segment result                                                            5,223.23            1,472.06        6,695.29
Finance costs                                                                  3.16                  –             3.16
Tax expense                                                                      –                   –        1,480.22
Non-controlling interest                                                         –                   –                 –
Profit for the year                                                       5,220.07           1,472.06         5,211.91

Segment assets                                                            5,795.03           17,049.29       22,844.32
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                    2,950.89                   –        2,950.89
Unallocated corporate assets                                                     –                   –          714.81
Total assets                                                              8,745.92          17,049.29        26,510.02

Segment liabilities                                                       4,316.27                   –        4,316.27
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                –                   –            15.74
Total liabilities                                                         4,316.27                   –        4,332.01

Capital employed                                                          4,429.65          17,049.29       22,178.01

Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                            4,332.01
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
		 Sales tax deferral                                                                                           125.59
		 Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                     346.38
		 Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                     43.95
Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                        4,847.93

Capital expenditure                                                         169.91                   –          169.91
Depreciation and write downs                                                246.43                   –          246.43
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                    22.01                   –            22.01

(b) Geographic segment
                                                                                              Rest of
Particulars                                                                   India         the world    Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                         19,227.29           12,215.93       31,443.22
Segment assets                                                           23,025.44           3,484.58        26,510.02
                                                                                                                            14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Capital expenditure                                                         169.91                   –           169.91




                                                                                                                    213
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                     Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021 (Contd.)
                     36 Disclosure in terms of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
                                                                  Net Assets (i.e. total assets                                                  Share in other                           Share in total
                                                                    minus total liabilities)            Share in Profit or (Loss)             comprehensive income                    comprehensive income
                                                                       As a % of                           As a % of                    As a % of consolidated                  As a % of consolidated
                                                                    consolidated          Amount        consolidated         Amount      other comprehensive         Amount      total comprehensive         Amount
                     Particulars                                      net assets      (J In Crore)      profit or loss   (J In Crore)                  income    (J In Crore)                  income    (J In Crore)



                     1. Parent:
                        Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                   92.41%        25,202.26             93.77%        4,554.59                   95.73%        720.80                    94.04%       5,275.39


                     2. Subsidiaries (Foreign):
                        PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                 –            0.98                   –          (0.04)                  (0.06%)         (0.46)                  (0.01%)         (0.50)
                        Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV              12.09%         3,296.25              6.30%         305.75                    (3.58%)       (26.97)                    4.97%        278.78
                        Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                         0.03%             7.21             (0.07%)          (3.28)                   0.01%           0.10                   (0.06%)         (3.18)
                        Add/(Less): Non-controlling interest in
                        all subsidiaries                                        –           (0.01)                  –               –                       –              –                        –              –
                        Add/(Less): Inter-company eliminations            (4.53%)       (1,233.26)                  –               –                   7.90%          59.48                    1.06%          59.48
                     Total                                               100.00%       27,273.43            100.00%        4,857.02                  100.00%         752.95                  100.00%       5,609.97



                     37 Miscellaneous
                     a.		There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.
                     b.		Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.


                     As per our report of even date                                                                                                                 On behalf of the Board of Directors


                     For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
                     Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                                                      Chairman
                     ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                                          Soumen Ray                                                                Rajiv Bajaj
                     per Arvind Sethi                                                                Chief Financial Officer                                                     Managing Director
                     Partner
                     Membership Number: 89802                                                           Dr. J Sridhar                                                              Madhur Bajaj
                     Pune: 29 April 2021                                                              Company Secretary                                                            Vice Chairman
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     214
                                                                                                            Consolidated Financial Statements




Salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2021
Form AOC-1

In accordance with section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the salient features of the financial statements of
subsidiaries is given below:
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Bajaj Auto
                                                                                                        International
                                                                              PT. Bajaj Auto            Holdings BV.                 Bajaj Auto
Particulars                                                                       Indonesia           (Consolidated)             (Thailand) Ltd.



a   The date since when subsidiary was acquired                           20 February 2008         20 February 2008           20 December 2019
                                                                         (being the effective     (being the effective
                                                                        date of demerger of      date of demerger of
                                                                              erstwhile BAL)           erstwhile BAL)
b   Reporting period for the subsidiary                                       1 April 2020 to         1 April 2020 to         1 January 2020 to
                                                                              31 March 2021           31 March 2021          31 December 2020
c   Reporting currency as on the last date of the relevant                   IDR (Indonesian                     Euro           THB (Thai Baht)
    financial year in the case of foreign subsidiaries                               Rupiah)
d   Exchange rate as on the last date of the relevant financial           1 USD = IDR 14572          1 Euro = H 85.75      1 USD = THB 31.5052
    year in the case of foreign subsidiaries                                 1 USD = H 73.11                                    1 USD = H 73.11
e   Share capital                                                                        5.84                1,697.85                         10.44
f   Reserves and surplus                                                                (4.86)               1,598.40                         (3.23)
g   Total assets                                                                         1.02               3,296.29                           7.46
h   Total liabilities                                                                    1.02               3,296.29                           7.46
i   Investments                                                                             –                2,611.55                              –
j   Turnover                                                                             1.26                       –                          0.01
k   Profit before tax                                                                   (0.04)                305.75                          (3.28)
l   Provision for tax                                                                       –                       –                              –
m Profit after tax                                                                      (0.04)                305.75                          (3.28)
n   Proposed dividend                                                                       –                       –                              –
o   % of shareholding                                                                  99.25%                100.00%                      100.00%



                                                                                                           On behalf of the Board of Directors


                                                                                                                          Rahul Bajaj
                                                                                                                           Chairman

                                                                  Soumen Ray                                           Rajiv Bajaj
                                                             Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director

                                                                Dr. J Sridhar                                            Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 29 April 2021                                           Company Secretary                                          Vice Chairman
                                                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                                                215
                     Consolidated Financial Statements




                                                         NOTES
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     216
IndiDesign.in
                                                                                       Business Responsibility Report




BUSINESS
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT

Section A   General information about the Company



   1        Corporate Identification Number                    L65993PN2007PLC130076
   2        Name of the Company                                Bajaj Auto Ltd.
   3        Registered Address                                 Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035
   4        Website                                            www.bajajauto.com
   5        Email Address                                      brr.response@bajajauto.co.in
   6        Financial year reported                            1 April 2020 – 31 March 2021
   7        Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in           Automobile
   8        Three key products/services manufactured/          Motorcycles and three and four-wheeler
            provided by the Company                            vehicles
   9        Total number of locations where business           Akurdi, Chakan and Waluj (Maharashtra)
            activity is undertaken by the Company              and Pantnagar (Uttarakhand)
   10       Markets served by the Company                      India and 79 countries across the world


Section B   Financial details of the Company



   1        Paid up capital (INR)                              289 crore
   2        Total turnover (INR)                               29,018 crore
   3        Total profit after tax (INR)                       4,555 crore
   4        Total spending on CSR as                           Refer Annual Report on CSR activities
            percentage of PAT (%)
   5        List of the activities in which expenditure in 4   Refer Annual Report on CSR activities
            above has been incurred
                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                                                   1
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                   Section C       Other details



                                       1           Does the Company have any Subsidiary               Yes (for details, refer Note 1 of Consolidated
                                                   Company/ Companies?                                Financial Statements)
                                       2           Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies                No
                                                   participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent
                                                   Company? If yes, then indicate the number of
                                                   such subsidiary Company(s)
                                       3           Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers,      No
                                                   distributors etc.) that the Company does
                                                   business with, participate in the BR initiatives
                                                   of the Company? If yes, then indicate the
                                                   percentage of such entity/entities? [Less than
                                                   30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]


                                   Section D       BR information



                                       1           Details of Director(s) responsible for BR
                                               (a) Details of the Director/Director responsible for
                                                   implementation of the BR policy/policies:
                                                   DIN Number                                         07464437
                                                   Name                                               Mr. Pradeep Shrivastava
                                                   Designation                                        Executive Director
                                               (b) Details of the BR head:
                                                   DIN Number (if applicable)                         Not Applicable
                                                   Name                                               Mr. Soumen Ray
                                                   Designation                                        CFO
                                                   Telephone number                                   (020) 66106300
                                                   E-mail id                                          soumenray@bajajauto.co.in
                                       2           Principle-wise BR policy/policies                  Included in this report
                                       3           Governance related to BR                           Included in this report


                                   Section E       Principle-wise performance



                                       1           Principle-wise performance                         Included in this report
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     2
                                                              Business Responsibility Report




PREFACE
As mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), India’s
top 1000 listed entities based on market capitalisation on the BSE and NSE,
are required to submit a ‘Business Responsibility Report’ (BRR) along with
their Annual Report for FY 2020-21. The report is required to be in line with
the ‘National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic
Responsibilities of Business’ (NVGs), as released by the Ministry of
Corporate Affairs in July 2011.


Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘BAL’ or ‘the Company’), to whom the said requirement is
applicable, presents its ninth BRR in line with the NVGs and BRR
requirement of SEBI. This report provides information on key business
responsibility initiatives undertaken by the Company. The business
responsibility performance of the Company is assessed annually by BAL’s
Board of Directors.
                                                                                               14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




                                                                                          3
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                  PRINCIPLE 1

                                            Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with
                                            Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

                                BAL’s business philosophy is driven by the three pillars of trust, integrity and credibility, and is built on
                                the key foundational values of ethics, transparency and accountability. In order to ensure that these
                                principles are upheld, BAL adopted a company-wide ‘Code of Conduct’ (CoC) in 2009. This CoC describes
                                the importance of integrity, good working norms, and the process to address violations. It covers an
                                exhaustive list of topics, including anti-bribery, anti-corruption, the prevention of sexual harassment at
                                the workplace, along with other similar laws of the various jurisdictions where the Company operates.
                                BAL is committed towards ensuring corruption free operations and the CoC contains clear guidelines to
                                ensure the same. It is mandatory for all employees globally to adhere to the CoC and are familiarized
                                with it during their induction process. There is a periodic review of the CoC in order to align it with laws,
                                organization structure and any other changes that may have an impact on its contents.

                                The CoC contains a ‘Grievance Redressal Policy’ and a ‘Whistle Blower Policy’ and in order to adhere to
                                BAL’s commitment, all employees have the liberty to raise concerns, if any, to the Company’s
                                Management. Three stakeholder complaints pertaining to the Company’s policies under Principle 1
                                were received in FY 2020-21 and all of them were resolved as of 31 March 2021.

                                In addition to these, there is a separate CoC that is specifically applicable to the Company’s Directors
                                and Senior Management. It reiterates that ‘Directors and Senior Managers shall observe the highest
                                standards of ethical conduct and integrity and shall work to the best of their ability and judgment’. All
                                Directors and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance with this CoC. The Annual
                                Report contains a declaration to this effect that is signed by the Managing Director.

                                BAL is a signatory of the World Economic Forum’s initiative, ‘Partnership Against Corruption Initiative’
                                (PACI). Further, the Company is also a signatory to the Model Code of Conduct developed by
                                Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).


                                  PRINCIPLE 2

                                            Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe
                                            and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle

                                Innovation and technological development are critical aspects of BAL’s success and the Company’s
                                Research and Development (R&D) division of consists of over 1,400 skilled employees. The R&D Division
                                continuously work towards various technological developments and help the Company achieve new
                                benchmarks in the industry. BAL’s state-of-the-art R&D Centre is located in Akurdi, where the
                                management and senior leadership work together to enhance the synergy between R&D,
                                manufacturing and sales.

                                BAL strives to always be at the leading edge of developing innovative products that promote
                                sustainability and address the needs of consumers in every segment. The Company is aware of its
                                dependence on natural resources and correspondingly continues to invest into resource efficiency at all
                                stages of the product lifecycle. Some of the key initiatives undertaken by the Company in this respect in
                                FY 2020-21 are described below.


                                Product Sustainability
                                Compliance to all applicable environmental standards is considered paramount at BAL. All of the
                                Company’s products are compliant to the Indian Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR) as applicable.
                                These include regulation of tail-pipe emissions of different air pollutants such as Carbon Monoxide (CO),
                                Hydrocarbons (HC), Nitrogen oxides (NOx) gases as well as Particulate Matter (PM). All BAL models are
                                ‘Type Approved’ certified by the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) for such compliances.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                As per the requirement for emissions under CMVR, BAL is also compliant with the emission Conformity
                                of Production (COP). The Company ensures compliance with emission standards for all the models



                     4
                                                                                        Business Responsibility Report




(including exported models), in line with the respective country’s norms. All BAL vehicles sold in India
from 1 April 2020 are BS VI compliant.

The Company’s commitment to environmental responsibility and sustainable product lifecycle is further
reflected in the internal studies which indicate that BAL products have recyclability and recoverability
rates of 87% and 94% respectively.

BAL has started implementation of End-of-Life Vehicles (ELV) rules wherein application of various
heavy metals including Lead, Mercury, Cadmium and Hexavalent Chromium are continuously monitored
and reduced in the vehicles. To maintain control, various IT systems have been implemented at Bajaj
and supplier location which enable suppliers to provide BAL with a declaration of the chemical
composition and its quantity in the material supplied to the Company.

Furthermore, electric mobility has been identified as a major focus area by BAL. To enable this strategic
shift, the Company has established a state-of-the-art electric vehicle and components testing lab
besides developing in-house designs and products


Sustainable Sourcing
In order to integrate a safe and eco-friendly approach throughout the supply chain, BAL has a ‘Green
Purchasing Policy’, which lists out the Company’s expectations from suppliers pertaining to water,
energy and natural resource conservation.

The Company gives preference to local vendors wherever possible and has identified certain vendor
clusters which are near each of its plants, leading to overall socio-economic development and
generation of employment opportunities locally. BAL continues to maintain robust engagement with its
vendors through the ‘Bajaj Auto Vendor Association’ (BAVA), comprising of 172 members. Currently,
135 of these members are ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 certified. Going forward, the Company plans to
make these certifications a mandatory requirement for all onboarded vendors.

Safety has always been an important
aspect of Company's working culture and
it has been the Company’s constant
endeavour to extend this safety culture
among all its vendors. BAVA Safety
Committees have been formed at Chakan,
Waluj and Pantnagar to institutionalize
safety among the Company’s vendors.
Each Committee consists of the safety
officers and HR heads of BAVA members
in that cluster. All members in the
committee are provided with regular
safety trainings including specialized
Behaviour Base Safety (BBS) trainings. A
total of 136 safety cross-audits have been
conducted among vendors within these clusters. Conducted by the members of BAVA Safety
Committees, these audits serve to not only assess the vendor safety practices but also function as a
platform for sharing best practices and cross-learning among the BAVA members.

The Company has completed 59 third-party legal and environmental audits of vendors and based on
the closure of all NCs / Observations and a detailed secondary research, a comprehensive list of
applicable regulations for vendors has been created. A portal has been developed for all BAVA
members to upload their compliance status against these requirements and this portal is also used for
sending alerts to ensure timely renewal actions.

BAL has a Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) Policy which assists Tier I and Tier II vendors to
enhance their operational, human and cost efficiencies. In FY 2020-21, 174 Tier I vendor groups and
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




295 Tier II vendors were practising TPM. To advance the adoption of TPM, BAL has also instituted the
TPM Awards which recognise best TPM performing vendors. Cumulatively, 128 BAL TPM Awards
and 71 BAL TPM Excellence Awards have been awarded to vendors. Furthermore, 25 vendors have
been recognized with the Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance (JIPM) TPM Excellence awards and
11 vendors have received JIPM TPM Excellence Consistency Award.




                                                                                                                    5
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                One of the focus areas in TPM is yield improvements in raw material weights through adoption of
                                various process improvements, alternate processes and efficiency improvement initiatives. These
                                initiatives are expected to achieve efficiencies in overall raw material consumption over a period of
                                time, leading to positive environmental impacts.

                                BAL also encourages its vendors to adopt best practices in energy conservation, including promotion of
                                solar panel installation at major vendor locations. Currently, 35 vendors have installed roof-top solar
                                projects (cumulative 33 MW capacity) at their premises, resulting in generation of green power and
                                reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.

                                During the COVID-19 related lockdown period in the past year, BAL extended support to its vendors by
                                handholding them in various activities essential for restarting their operations, including sharing SOPs,
                                approval processes/formats, safety precautions, check sheets, details of essential PPE kits and its
                                sources, self-declaration forms for people and monitoring wellness of people among others. BAL also
                                provided support of manpower sources and training methodology. Apart from operational support, the
                                Company also extended financial support to its vendors in the form of early payment with reduced cash
                                discounts during this time.


                                Waste reduction
                                BAL has adopted an aim of creating a Plastic Mukt Bajaj by 2022, for which various initiatives have been
                                adopted to reduce and eliminate plastic in incoming vendor packing and in outgoing material packing.
                                These include:

                                l     Replacement of plastic packaging of cable with reusable cotton packaging
                                l     Elimination of primary plastic packing of gear primary drive and gear balancer
                                l     Reuse of plastic ribbon based on its quality
                                l     Eliminated the plastic packaging of hand gloves


                                    PRINCIPLE 3
                                            Businesses should promote the well-being
                                            of all employees
                                BAL is committed to investing in skill and competency building of its employees and ensuring their
                                overall progress and well-being, while driving a culture of performance excellence within the Company.

                                In the year 2020-21, BAL hired 3,078 employees, including 133 permanent employees, 122 on probation,
                                2,668 trainees, 147 interns and 8 contractual employees. The total headcount as of 31 March 2021 was
                                10,052 employees. Each of the four plants have Company recognised trade unions, and 39.4% of the
                                employees are members of these unions. Currently, BAL has 17 specially abled permanent employees.
                                As an equal opportunity employer, BAL encourages employment of women across the organization. As on
                                31 March 2021, there were 654 women employees in BAL.

                                BAL has a ‘Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace’ (POSH) policy with the aim of ensuring
                                safety and security of its women employees. In line with the requirement of law, an internal committee
                                has been revised for Akurdi along with the creation of a sales circle wise committee and a POSH
                                module has been launched for the plant internal committee. Additionally, a new external member has
                                been on-boarded in the POSH Committee.

                                There were no complaints filed or pending relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour or
                                discriminatory employment during the year 2020-21. One complaint related to sexual harassment was
                                filed and closed during the same period as per laid down procedure.

                                BAL provides its workforce with various platforms and opportunities to upskill and develop new
                                competencies. In the year 2020-21, over 6,300 employees were trained through 339 training programs,
                                comprising of 5,562 man-days. Employees were also given training through TPM pillars, which
                                included safety, health and environment related training spanning 3,478 man-days for permanent
                                employees and 4,826 man-days for probationer employees, contractual employees and trainees. The
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                Company also continued to organize leadership development and other programs arranged for senior
                                level employees.




                     6
                                                                                       Business Responsibility Report




To leap-frog the competition and to enable employees' continuous access to world class learning, BAL
has introduced BOLT (Bajaj’s Online Learning Tool), a new learning experience platform. BOLT is
self-paced, on-demand and mobile-enabled thereby providing employees flexibility and ease. Content
from Ivy League institutes like Cornell University and top engineering institutes like Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT-OCW) is made available to employees on laptops and/or handheld devices.
Courses from a renowned aggregator Go1 and curated latest articles from Harvard, Forbes, and
McKinsey & Company, amongst others are also available. Around 97% of eligible employees have
accessed BOLT and have spent 7,786 hours of learning across 15,031 modules.

The Company has also launched a new program for business excellence, MAXIMUS, which is a
capability building program targeted to cover all junior management in front-end functions, covering
the Sales, Spares and Service in the first phase. The program framework will encompass development
of leadership, functional and business capabilities.

The Company has also introduced Master Class, which is an initiative through which we aim to bring
profound stories that inspire everyone at Bajaj Auto. As a part of this series, the Company has hosted
eminent personalities from various walks of life who shares their experiences on topics like leadership,
innovation, excellence, etc. To name a few, the Company brought in Wing Commander Rakesh Sharma,
First Astronaut of India; Dr. Tim Harkness, Head of Sports Science and Psychology at Chelsea Football
Club and many more.

The Company also celebrated the International Women’s Day with various initiatives during the entire
month of March 2021. The theme for this year was ‘Choose to Challenge’. Some of the initiatives
conducted are as follows:
1) Key personalities such as Dr. Mamta Patel Nagaraj from NASA and Ms. Anuradha T K from ISRO
     addressed the employees at Bajaj Auto sharing their vivid experiences and learnings. Around
     1400+ employees joined these sessions across various locations.
2) Interactive online theatre session on inclusion and equality showcasing how women and men
     can choose to challenge to build a more inclusive world. Around 700+ employees (both male and
     females) joined the session and actively participated
3) ‘ Good Mental Health’ talk was done by experts from India’s leading Employee Assistance Program
     (EAP) provider. The focus was on importance of mental health at workplace and strategies to have
     a good mental health. This session was attended by 850+ participants.
4) Wellness Wisdom for Women: Women focused sessions on Financial Wellness for Women, Session
     on Nutrition, Breast Cancer awareness by Laleh Busheri, etc. focused on promoting good health
     and lifestyle practices. More than 250 women employees participated in these sessions.

We concluded the celebrations with Shakti Awards for Model Women and Special Achievement Awards.
Around 500+ participants joined in the session.

BAL has recently signed an MoU with Coventry University, which is one of UK’s leading universities for
Product Design and Electrical & Electronics Design. This initiative is in continuation to the Company’s
pursuit of providing its engineers with global learning exposure at prestigious institutes.
BAL has put specific focus on employee ease of working and well-being by integrating various digital
solutions. The following key initiatives were launched during the reporting year:

l    EKAM, which is an employee self-service mobile app for all junior management and
     above employees
l    Career website integrated with corporate website and SAP success factor recruitment tool
l    Development of virtual development center
l    Automation of off-boarding/ e-separation process

In May 2019, BAL had announced the ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd. Employee Stock Options Scheme’ (BAL-ESOS
2019) under which stock options were granted to senior employees. ‘My-ESOP’ portal, a cloud-based
platform equipped with various features such as dashboard, reports, notifications for key dates etc.,
was implemented during the reporting period.

In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, BAL has taken extensive steps to ensure safety of all employees
                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




and external audits were conducted to ensure safety preparedness at all its offices and plants. Well
spaced-out work desks and layouts, Rapid Antigen Testing facility at plants and the launch of voluntary
COVID-19 Mediclaim insurance policy are some of the examples of employee oriented COVID-19
safety measures.




                                                                                                                   7
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                In its quest to continually benchmark and improve various employee policies and processes, BAL has
                                revised its transfer and relocation policy by providing more benefits as per market benchmarks.
                                Aspects pertaining to accessibility and reasonable work environment for specially abled employees
                                have also been incorporated in the Company’s equal opportunity policy.

                                In line with its commitments for employee health and well-being, the annual health check-up has been
                                extended to all BAL employees who are of age of 40 and above. The Company has a curated a health
                                package comprising of general body check and consulting facility with physician through empaneled
                                hospital/medical services. The Company also provides its employees with term life Insurance policy
                                covering over 2,300 employees.


                                 PRINCIPLE 4
                                             Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive
                                             towards all stakeholders, especially those who are
                                             disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised
                                Adhering to the core tenets of fairness and non-discrimination, the Company provides equal opportunity
                                to all its employees and has established processes to ensure that no form of discrimination against the
                                socially disadvantaged sections occurs at the workplace. The ‘Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action’
                                launched in 2006 formalizes this commitment and ensures that equal preference is given to people
                                from socially disadvantaged sections of the society ensuring that merit and other business
                                considerations are equal. During the year 2020-21, BAL recruited 3,078 new employees of which 279
                                (9%) belong to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.


                                 PRINCIPLE 5
                                            Businesses should respect and promote
                                            human rights

                                As a responsible global organization committed to the universally agreed principles of human rights,
                                BAL values integrity of all regulations and ensures compliance with all applicable laws and strives to
                                uphold the human rights of all its internal and external stakeholders. A quarterly legal compliance
                                report is submitted to the Company’s Board of Directors in this regard. In the year 2020-21, there were
                                no complaints on violation of human rights.


                                 PRINCIPLE 6

                                            Business should respect, protect and make efforts
                                            to restore the environment


                                BAL has always aimed at improving and promoting environmental care, health and safety, by ensuring
                                all its products and operations are safe for all employees, customers and the environment. The
                                Company continues to remain in full compliance with all the applicable regulations and is committed to
                                the continual improvement of its
                                performance, especially pertaining to
                                Safety, Occupational Health and
                                Environmental Protection. The Company’s
                                Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) policy
                                underlines the commitment in this regard.

                                The Company has continued to take several
                                initiatives to improve its performance on
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                environmental aspects such as energy
                                consumption, water use and waste
                                generation through use of better



                     8
                                                                                       Business Responsibility Report




technology, innovative ideas and behavioural change. Continuing its endeavour to reduce packaging
waste generation and bring down demand for virgin natural resources, the Company has replaced
wooden crates with steel frames, while plywood and thermocol have been fully replaced by corrugated
or eco-link boards. The Company is also committed to the protection of biodiversity and has therefore
committed itself to the ‘dense forest concept’ wherein mixed plantation of bushes, shrubs, fruit-bearing
trees etc. within and around its manufacturing facilities to promote biodiversity has been developed and
further work on it continues.

Below are the key highlights of the plant-wise SHE initiatives and performance:

Environment
Waluj
l    Due to reduction in Commercial Vehicles (CV) volumes, there is an overall increase of 16.8% in
     specific LPG consumption, 18.2% increase in specific water consumption, 3.8% increase in specific
     power consumption and 5% increase in specific greenhouse gas emission (Scope 1 and 2)
l    Zero liquid discharge with 100 % recycling of process wastewater
l    Created rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge structures, with pond capacity of 90,000
     cubic meters
l    Waste to landfill reduction: 30% paint sludge diverted from landfill to recycler
l    Installed 5MWp solar roof top power plant and reducing 4,538 tons of greenhouse gas emissions
l    Installed energy efficient LED luminaries (450 Nos.) saving 9,700 units/month
l    Installed centralized ARP system reducing energy consumption by 30% at paint shop
l    Planted 500 saplings, cumulative number of saplings planted till date: 65,000



Pantnagar
l    Achieved 5 % reduction in specific power consumption
l    Achieved 3.2 % reduction in specific PNG consumption
l    Attained a 15.5 % reduction is specific water consumption
l    Zero liquid discharge with 100 % recycling of process wastewater
l    Realized 10 % reduction in specific greenhouse gas emissions
l    Realized 7 % reduction in specific hazardous waste disposal
l    Installation of Energy Efficient Air Compressor
l    Installation of Ultrasonic Air leak detector to find out non hearable air leakages
l    Installation of Lacquer ASU and Colour ASU conventional blowers replaced by DC
     brushless motors
l    Installation of 3 guns provision in an arm to reduce compressed air consumption of
     pneumatic applicator
l    Started utilization of rainwater with ETP treated water for feeding RO plant for paint shop process
     – Zero Bore water use for paint process (100% Recycle water)
l    Reuse of dewatering mist spray water in RCDI stage
l    Reuse of pre-treatment line DM2 overflow water for DM plant
l    Installation of pre-treatment line fresh DI water interlocked with conveyor line
l    Installation of Dry off oven surface thermo coating application work

Chakan
l    Achieved 5.82 % reduction in specific power consumption
l    Achieved 1.2 % reduction in specific PNG consumption
l    Attained 20 % reduction is specific water consumption
l    Realized 14 % reduction in specific greenhouse gas emissions
l    Created rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge structures
l    Zero liquid discharge with 100 % recycling of process wastewater
l    Installation of Reverse Osmosis plant for treating Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) treated water,
     which is used in paint shop- Installation of RO Stage 2 plant
l    Use of solar power from roof top 2 MW solar power plant
                                                                                                                        14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




l    Planted 350 fruit trees, cumulative number of trees of varied species planted till date: 46,250
l    Composting of food waste using Black Soldier Flies (BSF) larvae




                                                                                                                   9
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                Akurdi
                                l    Controlled pumping hours
                                l    Installed Optimized water supply network
                                l    Use of TTP water for car washing, test track etc. in addition to toilet flushing and gardening
                                l    Use of Drip Irrigation / Sprinkler system for horticulture
                                l    Reduction in number of toilets in operational
                                l    Ensure periodic inspection of Taps, increase awareness

                                Health and Safety
                                Waluj
                                l    Trained 3,822 contractual workmen and 1,200 BAL employees on SHE topics
                                l    Providing inhouse Antigen testing facility for employees and workmen, conducted 7500+ tests

                                Pantnagar
                                l    Implemented and Certified for latest Safety certification - ISO 45001:2018 (with zero NC)
                                l    Inaugurated new Training Centre for contractors
                                l    Implementation of standardized machine guarding
                                l    Development of Health Index of 100% Employees and guidance for health improvement- based on
                                     annual health check-up
                                l    Installation of automatic ETP sludge collection machine for Dry Sludge – Benefit: Hazardous
                                     waste reduction

                                Chakan
                                l    Won 1st prize in The Machinist super shop floor award -2020 (Nov-2020): Safety category in large
                                     scale industry group., Won the gold medal for safety presentation (Safety Poka-yoke category)
                                     organized by Quality Circle Forum of India, Pune chapter- Jan 2021
                                l    Trained 1,301 contractual workmen and 1,005 BAL employees and 685 trainees on SHE topics.
                                l    Implemented and Re-Certified for IMS Certification (Safety + Environment) ISO 14001:2015 and
                                     OHSAS 18001:2007
                                l    Bureau Veritas COVID-19 Self safe assessment: Certification in Platinum category.

                                Akurdi
                                l    Safe hygiene assessment of Akurdi Plant was conducted in July 2020 by Bureau Veritas India
                                     where plant has got PLATINUM range which is highest range.
                                l    Auditors appreciated BAL managements proactive initiates in COVID-19 prevention
                                l    COVID-19 prevention - formation of CFT, conducted internal audits, implementation of kaizens
                                     social distancing, touch free, hygiene improvements etc.
                                l    Implementation of ISO 45001 MS initiated to upgrade from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001.
                                l    Trained 744 BAL employees, 165 trainees and 450 contractual employees on SHE related topics.
                                l    Undertook 8 mock drills with various scenarios

                                All plants of BAL operate as per the ‘Consent-to-Operate’ provided by the respective State Pollution
                                Control Boards (SPCB) and are within permissible limits with regards to the emissions and waste
                                generated. The Company did not receive any show-cause notice from the Central Pollution Control
                                Board (CPCB) or the respective SPCBs during the reporting year.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                     10
                                                                                        Business Responsibility Report




    PRINCIPLE 7
           Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and
           regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner

As a responsible corporate citizen, BAL actively engages with several industry associations and
government bodies to present its views on setting up of new industry standards and regulatory
developments related to the automotive manufacturing industry, at both domestic as well as global
platforms. The Company's ongoing dialogues through these platforms cover a wide range of areas
which include governance and administration, economic reforms and inclusive development policies,
among others. BAL aims to bring about a positive impact in the business ecosystem of the automotive
manufacturing industry through such engagement. Listed below are some of the key industry
associations of which BAL is member:

l     Confederation of Indian Industry
l     Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers
l     World Economic Forum
l     Federation of Indian Export Organizations
l     The Automotive Research Association of India
l     Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture
l     National Safety Council
l     The Advertising Standards Council of India
l     Indian Merchant Chamber
l     Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry
l     Engineering Export Promotion Council of India
l     Engineering Export Promotion Council of India
l     Quality Circle Forum of India


    PRINCIPLE 8
           Businesses should support inclusive growth and
           equitable development

For any organization, sustainable long-term value-creation is not just dependent on a robust business
model; it largely depends upon the mission and values that drive it. The vision and philosophy of late
Shri Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
activities of the group. He embodied the concept of trusteeship in business and the common good and
laid the foundation for ethical, value-based, and transparent functioning. The Bajaj Group also believes
that true and full measure of growth, long-term success, and progress lies beyond balance sheets or
conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the impact that a business and an industry can
have on the lives of people.

Since the inception of the Corporate Social
Responsibility Act, the Bajaj Group has partnered
with more than 400 NGO partners supporting
projects in the areas of health, education, women
empowerment to environmental sustainability.
The Group companies have together provided
support of over INR 1,300 crore during 2014-
2021. BAL’s CSR spend during this period has
been INR 684 crore.

The group made fund allocations across thematic
segments (and sub-segments) provided under Schedule vii of the Corporate Social Responsibility Rules
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




and the major allocations were made under the broad thematic heads of A. Health, B. Education, C.
Livelihood and D. Environmental Sustainability. Each entity under the Bajaj Group of Companies (BAL,
BFL, BFS, etc.) has flagship projects that they resonate closest with creating unique brand identities for
each of them. BAL owns its Water Conservation Project (BWCP) which is aimed towards improving lives
and livelihood of people in Aurangabad, Sikar, and Udhamsinghnagar.




                                                                                                                   11
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                Our Activities
                                (Please refer to the Annual Report on CSR activities for a detailed list of partners and grant amounts)

                                A. Health
                                In FY 2020-21, BAL has made a fund allocation worth INR 53 crore in the healthcare sector.
                                FY 2020-21 was primarily characterized by the outbreak of the COVID-19 health crisis and the need to
                                augment public and private infrastructure to address the pandemic. The Bajaj Group pledged INR 100
                                crore to the fight against the pandemic. Working with the Government and a network of 200+ NGO
                                partners, the Group committed itself to ensure that resources like access to healthcare and other
                                necessities of life reach those who need it the most.

                                The details of COVID-19 Response funds committed by Bajaj Group of companies

                                                                                                           Bajaj Alliance
                                                                                                           General Insurance   Bajaj Alliance Life
                                Name of Donor     Bajaj Auto Ltd.   Bajaj Finance Ltd.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.   Company             Insurance Company     Total Commitment



                                 Amount in INR             40                40                    8                8                   4            100
                                    crore

                                Due to widespread impact of the pandemic on our economy and public at large, BAL along with their
                                Group companies have spent their allocation of the COVID-19 Response funds towards ‘Health’ section.
                                Some of the notable contribution made by Bajaj Group Companies towards the response of the
                                coronavirus crisis are as follows:

                                I.     Pune's largest COVID-19 Care Center Set up in Lohegaon Vimannagar

                                       The Bajaj Group partnered with the Annamrita Foundation, Bharatiya Jain Sangathana and Pune
                                       Municipal Corporation to support up a 2,800 bed COVID-19 Care facility (CCC) in Vimannagar Pune
                                       that would reach out to the underprivileged people who are in need of isolation.

                                II.    Upgradation of 20 Public Health care facilities in Pune, Udham Singh Nagar,
                                       Sikar and Aurangabad

                                       The Bajaj Group has identified 20 Public Health facilities in Pune, Sikar, Aurangabad and Udham
                                       Singh Nagar to upgrade them with infrastructure. High end medical equipment like HFNOs and
                                       Health Cubes were distributed to the identified facilities to reduce the burden on hospitals and
                                       speed up laboratory testing.




                                III.   Safe Commute Campaign in Partnership with Uber

                                       BAL initiated a campaign that involved distribution of Safety Partitions, (between driver and rider),
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                       Disinfectant Solutions, Hand Sanitizers, Masks and Mechanical Spray Bottles to auto drivers. The
                                       Safe Commute Campaign in partnership with Uber was piloted in Gurgaon and later rolled out to
                                       Pan India which led to the distribution of over 1 lakh safety partitions to Auto Drivers across
                                       20 cities in India.


                     12
                                                                                        Business Responsibility Report




IV. Support through PPE kits and Meals

     The Bajaj Group partnered with the Pune Platform for COVID-19 Response (PPCR) to procure
     PPE kits for hospitals in Pune and for district administrations in Udham Singh Nagar, Sikar and
     Aurangabad. About INR 4.50 crore worth of PPE kits were distributed to frontline healthcare
     workers. About a total of 20 lakh meals or ration equivalent were provided to migrants in distress
     in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan.

V.   Distribution of Immunity Boosters

     BAL funded Prana Homeopathic Clinic has partnered with the Jankidevi Bajaj Gram Vikas Sanstha
     (the social outreach arm of the Bajaj Group) towards distribution of 75,000 vials of immunity
     booster Camphora-1 across various locations in Pune and Aurangabad.

     The support to key ongoing projects was also continued as these issues continue to be critical for
     wellbeing of the poorest-of-the-poor. The details of other notable projects are as follows:

     l    Cochlea Pune for Hearing and Speech

          Through this project, support was created for Swaranaad preschool of children with hearing
          impairment by renovating/ refurbishing 16 classrooms, 4 therapy rooms and 2 classrooms
          for conducting teachers training program. The total value of the project is INR 0.65 crore of
          which INR 0.19 crore have been disbursed in FY 2020-21.

     l    Centre for Applied Research and People Engagement, Aurangabad (CARPE)

          The objectives of the partnership with CARPE was to create a Solid Waste Management
          practice in the six urban local bodies in Rajgurunagar, Khed and ensure waste segregation
          and awareness regarding the same amongst the community people. With BAL, CARPE has
          two projects one is at Aurangabad and the other is in Pune rural (Khed block) of value INR 1.48
          crore. The disbursement for both Aurangabad and Pune Rural project is INR 0.55 crore.

B. Environmental Sustainability
BAL has adopted an environment friendly approach in all its Company initiatives, manufacturing
processes and technological innovations. The same is extended to CSR as BAL supports multiple
initiatives such as water conservation in the drought-prone district of Aurangabad and spring revival in
the distant locations of Kumaon.

In FY 2020-21, BAL has made a fund allocation worth INR 30.06 crore in the Environmental
Sustainability sector. Some of the key associations are :-

l    Paani Foundation
                                                                                                                         14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




     Paani Foundation is a not-for-profit company set up in January 2016 to work towards creating a
     drought free Maharashtra. BAL is supporting the cause with a contribution of INR 6.7 crore in
     FY 2020-21. The phase II of the Water Cup that BAL is supporting seeks to create scientific
     approaches to water data collection, adoption of water efficient agricultural practices, and
     ecological restoration of grasslands and forested areas.



                                                                                                                   13
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                l    Bajaj Water Conservation Project (BWCP):

                                     Most parts of Central Maharashtra, including Marathwada and Vidharbha face repeated drought.
                                     Most of the villages are tanker fed for 6 to 9 months in a year. With the aim of Conservation of
                                     Water Bajaj CSR launched the project in two phases in Aurangabad district.

                                     The first phase of Bajaj Water Conservation
                                     Project (January 2015 -December 2017) was
                                     launched in 51 villages of Paithan, Gangapur
                                     Taluka of Aurangabad district where a total
                                     of INR 20.40 crore was funded by BAL.

                                     The second phase of Bajaj Water
                                     Conservation Project (December 2017 –
                                     March 2022) was launched in 110 villages
                                     of Gangapur and Aurangabad Talukas of
                                     Aurangabad district, where a total of INR 123
                                     crore was funded by BAL and the community
                                     contributed INR 46 crore for the project. The
                                     key activities undertaken during second
                                     phase were water resource development, capacity building, livelihood enhancement through
                                     alternate livelihoods, soil conservation and plantation, water use efficiency and productivity
                                     enhancement. The disbursed amount for FY 2020-21 is INR 9.9 crore.

                                C. Education
                                BAL focuses on primary education with an aim to address issues related to:
                                l    Low learning outcomes
                                l    Early childhood Education
                                l    Dropouts and lack of access to formal schooling

                                     BAL launched a Bajaj Education Initiative– aiming to improve the quality of education in its core
                                     areas through infrastructure development and capacity building of students, teachers, and
                                     parents. Besides this, BAL has also funded multiple programs that focus on primary school
                                     education and the education of disabled children.

                                     In FY 2020-21, BAL has made a fund allocation worth INR 14.3 crore in the education sector. Some
                                     of the key associations are :-

                                l    Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation (KSCF)

                                     BAL has contributed INR 4 crore towards the project “Campaign against child trafficking and child
                                     sexual abuse” in the fiscal year under review. The project seeks to work and undertake a year-
                                     long campaign with a premier TV channel and make legal representations of cases such as child
                                     trafficking and child sexual abuse in Fast Track Courts in 20 targeted districts.

                                l    United Way of Delhi (UWD)

                                     BAL has contributed INR 2 crore to United Way of Delhi’s Neev project (formerly known as
                                     the Born Learning Programme) in FY 2020-21. The project aims at children in the age group of
                                     0-6 years from 100 Anganwadis to attain the stimulation necessary for growth so that an
                                     unhampered development of these children can be ensured. This is being achieved through the
                                     provision of safe, secure and healthy environment to each child enrolled under the program.

                                l    Lend a Hand India, Rajasthan

                                     BAL is supporting ‘Lend A Hand India’ for a three-year intervention aimed at improving access
                                     and quality delivery of skill education in secondary/ higher secondary schools in the state of
                                     Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. The project has two primary objectives – Firstly, to launch model
                                     multi skill vocational education program in 20 schools (10 each in Sikar in Rajasthan and Udham
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                     Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand). Secondly, to provide technical and project management support to
                                     the State governments of Rajasthan and Uttarakhand in scaling the vocational education in 1,105




                     14
                                                                                         Business Responsibility Report




      schools (905 in Rajasthan and 200 in Uttarakhand). Overall, the program seeks to reach out to
      121,600 students through a blend of direct and systemic capacity building interventions. The total
      approved amount for the project is INR 10.61 crore over a period of three years. The total funds
      disbursed for the project in the FY 2020-21 is INR 1.94 crore.

D. Livelihood
      BAL has worked with partner NGOs to support enhancement of Farm based livelihood as well as
      explore augmentation of Non-Farm livelihoods. Creation of micro-enterprises at individual and
      group levels is a key part of the strategy.

      In FY 2020-21, BAL has made a fund allocation worth INR 15.1 crore in the livelihood sector. Some
      of the key associations are :-
l     Bharatiya Yuva Shakti Trust (BYST-Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program)

      The program, run by BYST, includes supporting underprivileged young entrepreneurs by
      supplementing financing based on the assessment done by the mentors assigned to them who
      are drawn from the similar industry and who gives voluntary personalized advice and support. The
      young entrepreneurs are nurtured till they reach a level where not only are self-sufficient, but they
      in turn make a valuable contribution to society through creation of wealth and employment. BAL
      has commitment of INR 10 crore to mentor 1,000 youths through BYST and help them build their
      enterprise. The project has reached out to 130 youth entrepreneurs. The amount disbursed in
      FY 2020-21 is INR 1.20 crore.

l     Sasakawa India Leprosy Foundation (S-ILF)

      Under this program, BAL has committed INR 2.31 crore to support 216 leprosy-affected people
      in building their own enterprises. The project has impacted 108 beneficiaries and of the total
      approved amount, in FY 2020-21, INR 1.19 crore is disbursed.


    PRINCIPLE 9
            Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide
            value to their customers and consumers in a responsible
            manner

Company’s Philosophy
BAL is a firm believer in the philosophy of ‘customer first’, which is a fundamental driver for business
excellence. Guided by its Quality policy, the Company uses various modes like service centers, web-based
interfaces, dealer showrooms, social media and call centers to engage with its customers and seek
feedback for continuous improvement and enhanced customer experience. BAL also ensures regular
engagement with local service providers through structured familiarization programs and trainings.

In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the safety of the dealership team and customers was an important
issue for BAL. Basis various advisories released by experts and Government agencies, BAL came out with
‘Guidelines for our dealerships: Bajaj SECURE’, to ensure safety and to practice social distancing at
dealerships and service centers. They were requested to share the prerequisite check sheet with their
respective BAL Regional Manager as a sign-off before resuming their operations and subsequently on a
weekly basis. To make sharing of these prerequisite check sheets easy and user-friendly, BAL had
implemented a mobile application through which dealers and Authorized Service Dealers (ASDs) can
submit this compliance report towards SECURE norms by few clicks using their mobile phones. On
certification, the showrooms and service centres displayed a signage called “Bajaj Secure” to assure the
customers that due COVID procedures of sanitization and other aspects were maintained in that premises.
Furthermore, all test ride vehicles were duly sanitised after every use in order to ensure customer safety.
                                                                                                                          14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




The Company has also taken keen interest in improving the quality of service provided by its dealers. This
is achieved via a host of initiatives including Dealer Service Quality Standard Audits, Kaizen Awards and
Skill Contests, besides the roll-out of the ‘Centralized Dealer Management System’ (CDMS) for all the
dealers. In order to provide quick and effective customer support all the call centres have been integrated
with the CDMS. This allows the support executive to identify customers using their mobile number and
instantly access all the customer related data.



                                                                                                                    15
                     Business Responsibility Report




                                In order to ensure customer on-road
                                safety and efficient use of vehicles, BAL
                                provides an owner’s manual with each
                                vehicle that includes safety check
                                mechanisms, dos and don’ts as well as
                                fuel saving tips. Also, it conducts
                                pre-monsoon campaigns, focused on
                                safe driving and preventive check-up tips
                                for the season. During the year
                                2020-21,total 42 cases were filed at the
                                consumer forum, while 357 cases are
                                pending as on 31 March 2021.

                                BAL is a signatory to Advertising
                                Standard Council of India (ASCI), which
                                evaluates and provides corrective
                                recommendations for commercial
                                advertisements. BAL’s marketing
                                department ensures adherence to the
                                ASCI code of self-regulation in all its
                                advertisements such as displaying
                                helmets by all passengers on bikes and
                                disclaimers for advertisements with
                                bikes performing stunts.
                                Motorcycles:
                                Underlining its truly global customer base, BAL continues to build on the brand identity of ‘The World's
                                Favourite Indian’ that reflects the presence of Bajaj as a market leader in several countries across
                                the world.

                                In line with BAL’s business vision, Motorcycle Business has adopted TPM, The Prime mover towards
                                Excellence, to continuously improve its core competence in Service. We have rolled out the TPM
                                concepts at 280 dealer workshops and all of them are practicing the TPM methodology. 35 of our
                                dealerships are now TPM certified.

                                BAL has always kept customer satisfaction as key priority, with the aim of improving transparency for
                                customers, customer journey is now scripted digitally and moving towards paperless service
                                operations at the dealerships. The response time towards customers at call center and on emails
                                continues to remain robust with more than 90% of the customers being responded within one hour and
                                98% of the emails being responded within 10 minutes.

                                BAL’s Service Strategy is aimed at delivering the Brilliant customer experience at workshops, which is
                                coined as Customer Success. The key elements being:
                                l    to step up the capability of channel and internal team
                                l    to enhance the quality of network along with culture transformation at the workshops
                                l    to bring about more rigour on process and system compliance and bring along digital
                                     transformation.
                                l    to achieve desirable business outcomes through improved Net Promotor score and dealer
                                     workshop revenue growth

                                Through various programs, BAL’s marketing team aims at providing enhanced ownership experience to
                                its customers. Innovative ways are adopted to engage with the customers across media platforms.
                                These include riding activation tours, biking tours, knowledge sessions and expeditions in the ‘riding’
                                space while our presence on social media and other online channels acts as a rallying point for owner
                                communities to stay connected to other like-minded riders and fans across the world.

                                Consumer engagement programs like the newly launched KTM Pro-Experiences are designed to
                                provide a premium, exclusive and a differentiated experience to the owners, spanning the terrains of
                                Adventure, Street and Track. These programs have been designed by KTM experts who are terrain
                                specialists and hold the responsibility of curating and leading the events. Multiple properties have been
                                introduced covering short and long-distance rides, training programs and community building
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED




                                initiatives to enable the owners to enter the world of Pro-biking with full gusto.




                     16
                                                                                         Business Responsibility Report




To ensure better engagement with the customer and give them confidence in Bajaj service post-
COVID-19, we launched a nation-wide free battery charging campaign which helped our customers to
kickstart their routine in a hassle-free manner. Every initiative launched was under a strict regime of
‘Bajaj SECURE’ and as a result we quickly achieved more than 100% workshop Revenue Y-o-Y.

This year BAL enhanced its training facility by establishing another 22 regional hubs, now 100% of the
Company’s technicians are Advance Module trained which has helped it immensely to improve Service
Quality Standards. Now, on similar lines, BAL is leveraging the reach of its Local Mechanics by creating
a digital platform thus using the hugely untapped unstructured business model that will geotag them,
familiarize them with BAL technology, ensure greater sales referrals from them and promote
recommendation of Bajaj in market.

To transform the customer experience further BAL has launched Customer Experience Excellence 2.0
under which BAL has worked immensely on Digital Transformation and provided a paper-less service
experience to its customers based on the feedback from Net Promoter Score (NPS). Digitization has
brought transparency in areas of service cost and helped our customers with online service booking
facility, menu servicing options, monitor vehicle status from the comfort of home and hassle-free
payment systems. In a drive of transformation, BAL is also upgrading workshop Infrastructure to make
its facility more pleasing for customers and highly efficient for the workshop team.
Commercial Vehicles:
With the aim of empowering its customers, BAL has continued its ‘Swarozgar Campaign’ and the ‘Driver
Bane Malik’ initiatives. The Swarozgar Campaign enables rural youth to enter the three-wheeler
business, while under the Driver Bane Malik initiative, assistance is provided to contract drivers in
purchasing their vehicles. Additionally, ‘Certified Service Technician’ and ‘Power Technician’ programs
have been initiated by BAL which are aimed at upgrading the skills of technicians by providing them
appropriate training and tools. These programs ultimately provide better service to BAL customers,
while also increasing the earning potential of the technicians. The ‘Certified Service Technician’ and
‘Power Technician’ programs currently have 1,246 and 2,996 empanelled technicians respectively,
spread across India.
Electric Vehicle:
The ‘Chetak Electric’ - a one of its kind electric vehicle in the two-wheeler segment, continues to garner
significant interest from prospective owners and auto media. Besides being environment friendly with
zero emissions, Chetak is much quieter to run than the petrol-powered two-wheelers and at the same
time it provides a safe and comfortable experience to its riders.

Currently available for customers in Pune and Bangalore, the process of purchasing the vehicle is
simple and is completed online through the Chetak e-commerce portal. This includes booking,
uploading documents, choosing the financing and insurance option and then finally making the
payment. The customer needs to visit the store only for document verification and to receive the final
delivery.

To further improve the online experience to a prospective owner, an ‘e-showroom’ has been put in
place on the Chetak website, that largely replicates the in-showroom experience. From the history of
the brand, to a complete virtual tour, ushered by an AI-powered assistant, the e-showroom offers a
best-in-segment online buying experience.

Owners of the Chetak Electric have the convenient option of charging the vehicle through a regular five
ampere domestic socket. In addition to this, the customers can opt for a Chetak mobile application,
which helps them track the battery charge status, ride statistics, receive vehicle notifications etc. As a
value addition for the customers, BAL also provides a dedicated charging box with superior safety and
protection vs a normal wall socket, as an option.

With the aim of continuously improving the customer satisfaction levels, customer feedback is collected
at various points in the customer’s purchase journey, right from the test ride to the delivery. With the
early set of owners providing positive feedback on the product as well as the experience, the Chetak
                                                                                                                          14th ANNUAL REPORT 2020-21




Electric is primed to build on its initial success.




                                                                                                                    17
