                                                                        ~ BAJAJ
                                                                                'Disfi11tfly .A/,,,e,r/
                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited
                                                                                Akurdl Pune411 035 lnd!a

                                                                                Tel +91 20 27472851
                                                                                Fax +91 20 27473398
                                                                                www.baJaJauto.com

28 June 2019

To                                                 To
Corporate Relations Department.                    Corporate Listing Department.
BSE Limited                                        National Stock Exchange of India Ltd
1st Floor, New Trading Ring                        Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor
Rotunda Building, P J Tower                        Plot No.C-1, G Block
Dalal Street,                                      Bandra-Kurla Complex, Sandra (East),
Mumbai 400 001                                     Mumbai 400 051

BSE Code: 532977                                   NSE Code: BAJAJ-AUTO


Dear Sirs/Madam,

Sub.: Annual Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2019

This is further to our letter dated 17 May 2019, wherein the Company had informed that the
Annual General Meeting of the Company is scheduled to be held on 26 July 2019.

In terms of the requirements of Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, please find enclosed the
following documents for the financial year 2018-19:

    •   Notice of the 12th Annual General Meeting
    •   AnnualReport
    •   Business Responsibility Report

You are requested to kindly take the above information on record.

Thanking You,


Yours faithfully,

~~j•j:oro~m.,.
Dr. J Sridhar
Company Secretary




                           Registered Office Akurdi Pune411 035 India
                                  CIN L65993PN2007PLC130076
                                                                                                              BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                              CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

                                                                                                              Regd. Office:
                                                                                                              Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                                              Akurdi, Pune 411 035
                                                                                                              Email ID: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                                                              Website: www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                              Phone: 020-2747 2851
                                                                                                              Fax: 020-2740 7380




                                                              AGM NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that the twelfth annual general meeting of the shareholders of Bajaj Auto Ltd. will be held on
Friday, 26 July 2019 at 12.15 p.m. at the registered office of the Company at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 to transact the
following business:

ORDINARY BUSINESS

1.   To consider and adopt the standalone and consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2019,
     together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.

2.   To declare a dividend.

3.   To appoint a director in place of Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (DIN 00014615), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

4.   To appoint a director in place of Pradeep Shrivastava (DIN 07464437), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the Companies
     Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

SPECIAL BUSINESS

5.   Appointment of Rakesh Sharma as a Director

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:

     ‘RESOLVED THAT Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670) who was appointed by the Board of Directors as an additional director under section
     161(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’) and who vacates his office at this annual general meeting and
     in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner, be and is hereby
     appointed as a Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.’

6.   Approval of appointment of Rakesh Sharma as a Whole-time Director, with the designation as Executive Director

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

     ‘RESOLVED THAT as recommended by Nomination and Remuneration Committee, pursuant to the provisions of sections 196,197 and
     other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’), schedule V thereto and the Companies
     (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) amendment Rules, 2018 (including any amendment or statutory modification
     thereto for the time being in force) and subject to such sanctions as may be necessary, approval is hereby given to the appointment of
     Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670) as a Whole-time Director, with the designation as Executive Director of the Company, for a five year term
     commencing from 1 January 2019 till 31 December 2023 on terms and conditions, including remuneration and minimum remuneration
     in the event of absence or inadequacy of profits, as set out in the explanatory statement relating to this resolution and in the agreement
     entered into between the Company and Rakesh Sharma, which agreement is hereby approved, with liberty to the Board of Directors, to
     alter or vary the terms and conditions and remuneration including minimum remuneration in such manner as the Board may deem fit and
     is acceptable to Rakesh Sharma.

     ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in the event of any statutory amendment, modification or relaxation by the Central Government to schedule
     V to the Act, the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to vary or increase the remuneration including salary, commission,
     perquisites, allowances etc. within such prescribed limit or ceiling and the said agreement between the Company and Rakesh Sharma be
     suitably amended to give effect to such modification, relaxation or variation without any further reference to the members of the Company
     in general meeting.


                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                1
    Notice


         ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Company be and is hereby authorised to take such steps as may be necessary to
         give effect to this resolution.’

    7.   Appointment of Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla as an Independent Director of the Company for a term of five
         consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019

         To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

         ‘RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of sections 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
         referred to as the ‘Act’), the rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Act and the applicable provisions of the Securities and
         Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Listing
         Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force),
         Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla (DIN 00074392) who was appointed by the Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of Nomination
         and Remuneration Committee, as an additional director under section 161(1) of the Act and who vacates her office at this annual general
         meeting and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner, be and
         is hereby appointed as an independent director of the Company for a consecutive period of five years, effective from 1 April 2019 up to
         31 March 2024.

         ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to Regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, approval be and is hereby given for continuation of
         Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla (DIN 00074392), beyond 16 September 2019, as an independent director of the Company on account of her
         attaining the age of 75 years on the said date.

         ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
         thereunder, Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may approve
         from time to time and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.’

    8.   Appointment of Pradip Panalal Shah as an Independent Director of the Company for a term of five consecutive
         years with effect from 1 April 2019

         To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:

         ‘RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of sections 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
         referred to as the ‘Act’), the rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Act and the applicable provisions of the Securities and
         Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Listing
         Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force),
         Pradip Panalal Shah (DIN 00066242) who was appointed by the Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of Nomination and
         Remuneration Committee, as an additional director under section 161(1) of the Act and who vacates his office at this annual general
         meeting and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner, be and
         is hereby appointed as an independent director of the Company for a consecutive period of five years, effective from 1 April 2019 up to
         31 March 2024.

         ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
         thereunder, Pradip Panalal Shah be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may approve from time
         to time and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.’

    9.   Re-appointment of Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani as an Independent Director of the Company for a second term
         of five consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019

         To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

         ‘RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of section 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
         referred to as the ‘Act’), the Rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Companies Act, 2013 and the applicable provisions of the
         Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as
         the ‘Listing Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being
         in force), based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company,
         Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani (DIN 00053673), who was appointed as an independent director of the Company for a term of five years up to
         31 March 2019 and is eligible for being re-appointed as an independent director and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to
         section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner and considering the report of his performance evaluation for the year
         2018-19, be and is hereby re-appointed as an independent director on the Board of the Company for a second term of five consecutive
         years, effective from 1 April 2019 up to 31 March 2024.

         ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to Regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, approval be and is hereby given for continuation of
         Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani, beyond 26 February 2020, as an independent director of the Company on account of his attaining the age of
         75 years on the said date.

         ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
         thereunder, Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may approve
         from time to time and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.’


2   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                         Notice


10. Re-appointment of Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton as an Independent Director of the Company for a second term of
    five consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

     ‘RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of section 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
     referred to as the ‘Act’), the Rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Companies Act, 2013 and the applicable provisions of the
     Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as
     the ‘Listing Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in
     force), based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, Balaji
     Rao Jagannathrao Doveton (DIN 00025254), who was appointed as an independent director of the Company for a term of five years up to
     31 March 2019 and is eligible for being re-appointed as an independent director and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to
     section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner and considering the report of his performance evaluation for the year
     2018-19, be and is hereby re-appointed as an independent director on the Board of the Company for a second term of five consecutive
     years, effective from 1 April 2019 up to 31 March 2024.

     ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to Regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, approval be and is hereby given for continuation
     of Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton, beyond 1 April 2019, as an independent director of the Company on account of his having already
     attained age of 75 years as on 1 April 2019.

     ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
     thereunder, Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may
     approve from time to time and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.’

11. Maintaining the number of maximum directors of the Company

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

     ‘RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules
     made thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force) and article 116 of
     the articles of association of the Company, the number of directors of the Company for the time being in office shall remain within the
     maximum limit of eighteen as at present.

     ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the board of directors of the Company be and is hereby authorised to take all such steps as may be necessary,
     proper or expedient to give effect to this resolution.’




By order of the Board of Directors
for Bajaj Auto Ltd.




Dr. J Sridhar
Company Secretary

Pune: 17 May 2019




                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                3
    Notice


                                                                     NOTES:
    1    A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE, INSTEAD OF HIMSELF/HERSELF
         AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER. A PERSON CAN ACT AS PROXY ON BEHALF OF MEMBERS UP TO AND NOT EXCEEDING
         FIFTY AND HOLDING IN THE AGGREGATE NOT MORE THAN TEN PERCENT OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY. FURTHER,
         A MEMBER HOLDING MORE THAN TEN PERCENT OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY CARRYING VOTING RIGHTS MAY
         APPOINT A SINGLE PERSON AS PROXY AND SUCH PERSON SHALL NOT ACT AS PROXY FOR ANY OTHER PERSON OR MEMBER. THE
         INSTRUMENT APPOINTING PROXY MUST BE DEPOSITED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY NOT LESS THAN 48 HOURS
         BEFORE THE TIME OF COMMENCEMENT THE MEETING.

    2    During the period beginning 24 hours before the time fixed for the commencement of the meeting and ending with the conclusion of the
         meeting, members would be entitled to inspect the proxies lodged, at any time during the business hours of the Company, provided not
         less than 3 days written notice is given to the Company.

    3    Statement pursuant to section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) forms part of this Notice.

    4    Brief details of the directors, who are seeking appointment/re-appointment, are annexed hereto as per requirements of regulation 36(3) of
         the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the ‘Listing Regulations’)
         and as per provisions of the Act.

    5    The Board of Directors has recommended dividend of H 60 per equity share of the face value of H 10 each for the year ended
         31 March 2019 for the approval of shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting (‘AGM’).

    6    Pursuant to the provisions of section 91 of the Act and regulation 42 of the Listing Regulations, the register of members and share
         transfer books of the Company will remain closed from Saturday, 13 July 2019 to Friday, 26 July 2019 (both days inclusive) for the
         purpose of payment of dividend.

    7    Subject to the provisions of section 126 of the Act, dividend on equity shares, if declared at the AGM, will be credited/dispatched between
         Tuesday, 30 July 2019 and/ or Wednesday, 31 July 2019 as under:

         a)   to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided by share transfer agent of the Company i.e.
              Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. (‘Karvy’) to the Company, as on or before the closing hours on Friday, 12 July 2019; and

         b)   to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form, as per the beneficial ownership data made available to the Company
              by National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) as of the close of business
              hours on Friday, 12 July 2019.

    8    As per the Listing Regulations and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 20 April 2018, the Company shall use any electronic mode of payment
         approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment to the members. Accordingly, dividend, if declared, will be paid through
         electronic mode, where the bank account details of the members required for this purpose are available. Where dividend payments are
         made through electronic mode, intimations regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the members. In case, where the dividend
         cannot be paid through electronic mode, the same will be paid by account payee/non-negotiable instruments/warrants with bank account
         details printed thereon. In case of non-availability of bank account details, address of the members will be printed on such payment
         instruments.

         For enabling the payment of dividend through electronic mode, members holding shares in physical form are requested to furnish, on
         or before Friday, 12 July 2019, updated particulars of their bank account, to Karvy along with a photocopy of a ‘cancelled’ cheque of the
         bank account and self-attested copy of Permanent Account Number (PAN) card. Beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form are
         requested to furnish their bank account details to their respective depository participants and make sure that such changes are recorded
         by them correctly on or before Friday, 12 July 2019. The request for updating of particulars of bank account should be signed as per the
         specimen signature registered with Karvy/depository participants, as the case may be.

    9    Members, holding shares in physical form, are requested to notify change of address, if any, to Karvy on or before Friday, 12 July 2019.
         Beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form are requested to notify any change of address, etc. to their respective depository
         participants and make sure that such changes are recorded by them correctly on or before Friday, 12 July 2019.

    10   To avoid fraudulent transactions, the identity/signature of the members holding shares in electronic/demat form is verified with the
         specimen signatures furnished by NSDL/CDSL and that of members holding shares in physical form is verified as per the records of the
         share transfer agent of the Company. Members are requested to keep the same updated.

    11   SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number (PAN) by every person dealing in securities market. Members holding
         shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to submit the PAN to their depository participants with whom they are maintaining
         their demat accounts. Members holding shares in physical form can submit their PAN details to the Company or Karvy.

    12   In terms of section 101 and 136 of the Act, read together with the rules made thereunder, the listed companies may send the notice of
         AGM and the annual report, including Financial statements, Board Report, etc. by electronic mode. The Company is accordingly forwarding
         soft copies of the above referred documents to all those members, who have registered their email ids with their respective depository
         participants or with the share transfer agent of the Company.


4   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                          Notice


     The Annual Report, Notice of AGM, Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are available at the Company’s website on www.bajajauto.com

13   To receive shareholders’ communications through electronic means, including Annual Reports and Notices, members are requested
     to kindly register/update their email address with their respective depository participant, where shares are held in electronic
     form. If, however, shares are held in physical form, members are advised to register their e-mail address with Karvy on
     mohsin.mohd@karvy.com

14   With a view to help us serve the members better, members who hold shares in identical names and in the same order of names in more
     than one folio are requested to write to the Company to consolidate their holdings in one folio.

15   SEBI vide its notification dated 8 June 2018 as amended on 30 November 2018, has stipulated that w.e.f. 1 April 2019, the transfer of
     securities (except transmission or transposition of shares) shall not be processed, unless the securities are held in the dematerialized
     form. The Company has complied with the necessary requirements as applicable, including sending of letters to shareholders holding
     shares in physical form requesting them to demat their physical holdings.

16   To comply with the above mandate, members who still hold share certificates in physical form are advised to dematerialise their
     shareholding to also avail numerous benefits of dematerialisation, which include easy liquidity, ease of trading and transfer, savings in
     stamp duty and elimination of any possibility of loss of documents and bad deliveries.

17   Documents referred to in the Notice and the statement shall be open for inspection by the members at the registered office of the
     Company from Monday to Friday from 10.00 a.m. to 12.30 p.m., except holidays, up to the date of AGM.

18   The Company has been maintaining, inter alia, the following statutory registers at its registered office at Akurdi, Pune, which are
     open for inspection by members in terms of the applicable provisions of the Act, from Monday to Friday from 10.00 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.,
     except holidays:

     i)    Register of contracts or arrangements in which directors are interested under section 189 of the Act. The said Register shall also
           be produced at the commencement of the AGM of the Company and shall remain open and accessible during the continuance of the
           meeting to any person having the right to attend the meeting.

     ii)   Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding under section 170 of the Act. The said Register shall be
           kept open for inspection at the AGM of the Company and shall be made accessible to any person attending the AGM.

19   Certificate from Statutory Auditors of the Company certifying that the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019)
     of the Company is being implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, will also be one of
     such documents available for inspection by the Members at the AGM.

20   Pursuant to section 72 of the Act, members holding shares in physical form are advised to file nomination in the prescribed
     Form SH-13 (a copy of which is available on the website of the Company) with the Company’s share transfer agent. In respect
     of shares held in electronic/demat form, the members may please contact their respective depository participant.

21   In terms of section 124(5) of the Act, dividend amount for the year ended 31 March 2012 remaining unclaimed for a period of 7
     consecutive years shall become due for transfer in August 2019 to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the
     Central Government.

     Further, in terms of section 124(6) of the Act, in case of such shareholders whose dividends are unpaid for a consecutive period of 7 years,
     the corresponding shares shall be transferred to the IEPF demat account.

     Members who have not claimed dividends in respect of the financial years from 2011-12 onwards are requested to approach the
     Company/Karvy for claiming the same as early as possible, to avoid transfer of the relevant shares to the IEPF demat account.

22   For more details on shareholders’ matters, please refer to the chapter on General Shareholder Information, included in the Annual Report.

23   Corporate members are requested to send in advance, duly certified copy of the Board Resolution/Power of Attorney authorising their
     representative to attend the AGM.

24   Members/Proxies are requested to bring the attendance slip/proxy form duly filled and signed for attending the meeting. Proxies are
     requested to bring their identity proof at the meeting for the purpose of identification.

25   Please note that for security reasons, no article/baggage will be allowed at the venue of the meeting.

26   Route map for the directions to venue of the meeting is available on the Company’s Website
     http://www.bajajauto.com/pdf/AGM_Route_map.pdf

27   In case a person has become a member of the Company after dispatch of AGM Notice, but on or before the cut-off date for
     remote e-voting, i.e., Friday, 19 July 2019, such person may obtain the User ID and Password from Karvy by email request on
     mohsin.mohd@karvy.com



                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                5
    Notice


    28   Voting through electronic means –

         In terms of the provisions of section 108 of the Act, read with rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014,
         as amended, (hereinafter called ‘the Rules’ for the purpose of this section of the Notice) and regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations, the
         Company is providing facility of remote e-voting facility to exercise votes on the items of business given in the Notice through electronic
         voting system, to members holding shares as on 19 July 2019 (end of day), being the cut-off date fixed for determining voting rights of
         members, entitled to participate in the remote e-voting process, through the e-voting platform provided by Karvy or to vote at the AGM.
         Person who is not a member as on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for information purposes only.

    The instructions for remote E-Voting are as under:

    A    For members who receive Notice of AGM through e-mail:

         i.      Initial password is provided in the body of the email.

         ii.     Use the following URL for e-voting: https://evoting.karvy.com

         iii.    Enter the login credentials, i.e., user id and password mentioned in your email. Your Folio No./DP ID-Client ID will be your user ID.
                 However, if you are already registered with Karvy for e-voting, you can use your existing User ID and Password for casting your
                 votes.

         iv.     After entering the details appropriately, click on LOGIN.

         v.      You will reach the Password change menu, wherein you are required to mandatorily change your password. The new password
                 shall comprise of minimum 8 characters with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a
                 special character (@,#,$ etc.). It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to
                 keep your password confidential.

         vi.     You need to login again with the new credentials.

         vii.    On successful login, the system will prompt you to select the EVENT. Select Bajaj Auto Ltd. from the drop-down menu.

         viii.   The voting page will open. On the voting page, the number of shares (which represents the number of votes) as held by the member
                 as on the cut-off date will appear. If you desire to cast all the votes assenting/dissenting to the resolution, then enter all shares and
                 click ‘FOR’/’AGAINST’ as the case may be or partially in ‘FOR’ and partially in ‘AGAINST’, but the total number in ‘FOR’/’AGAINST’
                 taken together should not exceed your total shareholding as on the cut-off date. You may also choose the option ‘ABSTAIN’ and the
                 shares held will not be counted under either head.

         ix.     Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall choose the voting process separately for each folio/demat account.

         x.      Cast your votes by selecting an appropriate option and click on ‘SUBMIT’. A confirmation box will be displayed. Click ‘OK’ to confirm,
                 else ‘CANCEL’ to modify. Once you confirm, you will not be allowed to modify your vote subsequently. During the voting period, you
                 can login multiple times till you have confirmed that you have voted on the resolution.

         xi.     Corporate/Institutional members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the
                 relevant Board resolution/authority letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorised signatory(ies) who are
                 authorised to vote, to the Scrutiniser through e-mail cssdlimaye@gmail.com. They may also upload the same in the e-voting module in
                 their login. The scanned image of the above documents should be in the naming format ‘Corporate Name EVENT No.’

         xii.    Remote e-voting facility where members can cast their vote online shall be open from: Tuesday, 23 July 2019 (9.00 a.m.) till
                 Thursday, 25 July 2019 (5.00 p.m.) and at the end of remote e-voting period, the facility shall forthwith be blocked.

         xiii.   In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and e-voting User Manual available at the
                 ‘download’ section of https://evoting.karvy.com or call Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. on 1800 345 4001 (toll free).

    B    For members who receive the Notice of AGM in physical form:

         i.      Members holding shares either in demat or physical mode, who are in receipt of Notice in physical form, may cast their votes using
                 the e-voting facility, for which the user Id and initial password is provided on the attendance slip. Please follow steps from
                 Sr. No. (i) to (xiii) under heading A above to vote through e-voting platform.




6   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                           Notice


C   Voting facility at AGM:

    i.     In addition to the remote e-voting facility as described above, the Company shall make a voting facility available at the venue of
           the AGM, through electronic voting system and members attending the meeting, who have not already cast their votes by remote
           e-voting, shall be able to exercise their right at the meeting.

    ii.    Members who have cast their votes by remote e-voting prior to the meeting may attend the meeting, but shall not be entitled to cast
           their vote again.

D   Live Webcast of AGM:

    Pursuant to regulation 44(6) of the Listing Regulations, as amended, the Company is providing facility of one-way live webcast of the
    proceedings of AGM. Members who are entitled to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of AGM by logging on the e-voting
    website of Karvy at https://evoting.karvy.com/ using their secure login credentials, provided for e-voting. Members are encouraged to use
    this facility of webcast.

E   General Instructions:

    i.     The Board of Directors has appointed Shyamprasad D. Limaye, Practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 1587, CP No. 572) as the
           Scrutiniser to the remote e-voting process and voting at the venue of the AGM in a fair and transparent manner.

    ii.    The Scrutiniser shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast at the meeting, thereafter
           unlock the votes through remote e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses, not in the employment of the Company and
           make a consolidated scrutinisers’ report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman of the Company, who
           shall countersign the same.

    iii.   The scrutiniser shall submit his report to the Chairman or in his absence Managing Director and CEO of the Company, who shall
           declare the result of the voting. The results declared along with the scrutiniser’s report shall be placed on the Company’s website
           www.bajajauto.com and on the website of Karvy https://.evoting.karvy.com and shall also be communicated to the stock exchanges.
           The resolutions shall be deemed to be passed at the AGM of the Company.




                                                                                                           12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19               7
    Notice



                                                    ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
    BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTORS SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING PURSUANT TO
    REGULATION 36(3) OF THE LISTING REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE ACT.


    Item No. 3 of the Notice

    Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (DIN 00014615)

    As regards re-appointment of Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj referred to in item no. 3 of the Notice, following disclosures are made for the
    information of the shareholders:

    Information about the appointee:

    Brief resume

    Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (born on 2 November 1969) is B.E. (Mech), first class with distinction (8th on merit list) from the University of
    Pune, M.Sc (Manufacturing Systems Engg) with distinction from the University of Warwick, UK and MBA from Harvard Business School, USA.

    l    Since 20 February 2008, he is the Managing Director of Bajaj Finserv Ltd. Bajaj Finserv operates in the insurance business through Bajaj
         Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd. and Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd., as well as in the lending business through Bajaj
         Finance Ltd. His role includes guiding the current businesses and building new ones in the financial services space

    l    Since 15 October 2013, he is the Vice Chairman of Bajaj Finance Ltd.

    l    He is the Chairman of Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company and Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company with effect from 1 April 2013.
         Was a Non-Executive Director of these two companies from their inception in 2001 up to 31 March 2013

    l    He is the Managing Director of Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. with effect from 1 April 2012 (earlier its Non-Executive Director). Role
         includes building the strategy and team, and guiding this investment company, which has almost H 60,000 crore in cash and investments
         including over 30% stake in Bajaj Auto and around 40% in Bajaj Finserv

    l    He is the Former Executive Director of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (until 31 March 2012), having headed Finance & Control, legal & international
         business functions of Bajaj Auto over different periods from 1994 until 2012 and currently its Non-Executive Director

    l    Memberships:

         -     International Advisory Board (IAB), Allianz SE

         -     International Technology Advisory Panel (ITAP) of Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS)

    l    Awards:

         -     All India Management Association (AIMA) Managing India Awards - Entrepreneur of the Year award 2019

         -     Economic Times - ET Business Leader of the Year award 2018

         -     Asian Centre’s Leadership, Corporate Governance, Sustainability & CSR Awards - Transformational Leader Award (Large Cap
               Category) in 2017

         -     Ernst & Young - EY Entrepreneur of the Year award 2017

         -     India Today- Top 50 Power List 2017-18

         -     Bombay Management Association {BMA) - Entrepreneur of the Year Award 2015-16

         -     Business World - India’s Most Valuable CEOs in 2015 & 2016




8   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                         Notice


Major Directorships

1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
2.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
3.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
4.    Bajaj Auto Holdings Ltd.
5.    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co Ltd.
6.    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co Ltd.
7.    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
8.    Jeewan Ltd.
9.    Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.
10.   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanships: Nil

*Committee Memberships

1.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
2.    Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.
3.    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co Ltd.
4.    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co Ltd.
5.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
6.    Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: 508,724

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Insurance, Mutual Fund & Financial
Services, Banking, Investment & Treasury and Forex Management and such other areas.

He was first appointed on the Board with effect from 2 May 2007 and his last drawn remuneration during the year 2018-19 was H 20 lakh.
More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fee and commission, as
payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors, or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj, Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj
and Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding,
if any, in the Company.

The Board commends item no. 3 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

Item No. 4 of the Notice

Pradeep Shrivastava (DIN 07464437)

As regards re-appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava, referred to in item no. 4 of the Notice, following disclosures are made for the information of
the shareholders:

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Pradeep Shrivastava (born on 31 March 1960) is qualified as a B. Tech (Mechanical Engineer) from IIT, Delhi 1981 and also as PGDM-1986 from
IIM, Bangalore. He started his career as Asst. Engineer (Maintenance) in Tata Motors during 1981-1984.

Directorships

Bajaj Auto Ltd.

*Committee Positions: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee are considered.


                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19               9
     Notice


     Shareholding in the Company: 75

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Operations & Engineering, Manufacturing, Automobile Engineering &
     Project Management and such other areas.

     He joined Bajaj Auto in 1986 and was its Chief Operating Officer, until his elevation as Executive Director with effect from 1 April 2016 and his
     last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2018-19 was H 665 lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the
     Annual Report.

     Pradeep Shrivastava is not disqualified from being appointed as director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

     Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
     Governance Report.

     He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

     None of the Directors, or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Pradeep Shrivastava, is concerned or interested financially or
     otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

     The Board commends item no. 4 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

     Statement under section 102 of the Act and regulation 36 (3) of the Listing Regulations

     Item no. 5 & 6 of the Notice

     Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670)

     The Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, has appointed Rakesh Sharma as an
     Additional Director effective from 1 January 2019. In terms of section 161 (1) of the Act, read with Article 119 of the Articles of the Association of
     the Company, Rakesh Sharma holds office as an additional director only upto the date of the ensuing AGM. A notice in writing in the prescribed
     manner, as required under section 160 of the Act and rules made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding his candidature
     for the office of the director and the same is available for inspection by the members from Monday to Friday, from 10.00 am to 12.30 pm except
     holidays at the Registered Office of the Company upto the date of the AGM.

     Further, at the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company held on 24 October 2018, Rakesh Sharma, subject to necessary approval of
     shareholders, was appointed as a Whole-time Director, with the designation as Executive Director of the Company for a period of five years with
     effect from 1 January 2019, on the terms of remuneration mentioned herein below, with powers to the Board to make such variation or increase
     therein as may be thought fit from time to time, but within the ceiling/s laid down in the Act or any statutory amendment or relaxation thereof:

     1.    Salary

           i.     Remuneration (CTC) of Rs.5.48 cr. p.a. comprising Salary, Allowances, Perquisites, Retirals and Performance Reward.

           ii.    Bonus under the Company’s scheme relating to company-level sales volume achievement during the year 2018-19.

           iii.   Annual increments / increases as may be decided by the board of directors from time to time, during the remainder of the tenure
                  and within an overall ceiling of remuneration of H 15 cr. p.a.

     2.    Perquisites

           i.     Leave with full pay as per the rules of the Company, with encashment of unavailed leave being allowed.

           ii.    Cover of Insurance policies & Contribution to Employee Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme as per Company rules.

           iii.   Cost of insurance cover against the risk of any financial liability or loss because of any error of judgement, wrongful act or such
                  other reason as may be approved by the board of directors from time to time.

           iv.    Reimbursement of entertainment expenses incurred in the course of business of the Company.

           v.     Telephone, tele-fax and other communication facilities at Company’s cost as per Company rules.

           vi.    Subject to any statutory ceiling/s, the Executive Director may be given any other allowances, perquisites, benefits and facilities as
                  the board of directors from time to time may decide.




10   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                  Notice


3.    Valuation of perquisites

      Perquisites / Allowances shall be valued as per Income-tax Rules, wherever applicable, and in the absence of any such rules, shall be
      valued at actual cost.

4.    Stock Options

      Stock Options as per the schemes as may be framed by the Company.

5.    Minimum remuneration

      In the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during the tenure of the appointment, the executive director shall be
      paid remuneration by way of salary and perquisites as set out above, as minimum remuneration, subject to restrictions, if any, set out in
      schedule V to the Act, from time to time.

6.    Computation of ceiling

      The following shall not be included in the computation of perquisites for the purposes of the ceiling:

      a)    Contribution to provident and superannuation funds.

      b)    Gratuity payable to the extent of half a month’s salary for each completed year of service.

      c)    Encashment of leave.

7.    In the event of any change taking place in the relevant laws, rules, schedules, regulations or guidelines or in the event of their being
      withdrawn, repealed, substituted or differently interpreted at any time hereafter, the board of directors of the Company, including
      committee of the board, if necessary, may revise the terms of remuneration (including minimum remuneration) and perquisites as set out
      hereinabove and add to, change or delete any of the said terms, if agreed to by the Chairman.

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Rakesh Sharma joined Bajaj Auto in October 2007 as President (International Business). He has led the International Business during which it
acquired a significant global presence. He was elevated to the position of Chief Commercial Officer in July 2018 with the responsibility to lead
the business verticals of Domestic Motorcycles, Intracity Commercial Vehicles, International Business and Auto Finance. He is a member of the
Board of Commissioners of PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia, a subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Ltd. and the Chairman of the Exports Council of SIAM.

Prior to joining Bajaj Auto Ltd., he worked for over 20 years with the British ICI Group in multiple roles.

Rakesh Sharma, 56 years, is a commerce (Honours) graduate from the Delhi University and an M.B.A from IIM, Ahmedabad.

Directorships

Bajaj Auto Ltd.

*Committee positions: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee are considered.


Shareholding in the Company: Nil

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Operations & Engineering, Automobile
Engineering & Project Management, and such other areas.

His last drawn remuneration during the year 2018-19 was H 547 lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report.

Rakesh Sharma is not disqualified from being appointed as director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Rakesh Sharma, is directly or indirectly concerned or interested, financially
or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item no.5 & 6 of the Notice.


                                                                                                                12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                   11
     Notice


     The Board commends the ordinary resolution set out in item no. 5 and special resolution set out in item no. 6 for approval by shareholders.

     Item no. 7 of the Notice

     Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla (DIN 00074392), on the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee was appointed by the Board of
     Directors of the Company as an additional director in the capacity of independent director on 13 March 2019 with effect from 1 April 2019. She
     holds office until the ensuing AGM under section 161(1) of the Act.

     She has submitted the declaration of independence, pursuant to section 149 (7) of the Act, stating that she meets the criteria of independence as
     provided in section 149 (6) and regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations. Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla is not disqualified from being appointed as a
     director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

     The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors shall be open for inspection at the registered office of the Company by any
     member from Monday to Friday from 10.00 am to 12.30 pm, except holidays and the same shall also be available at the Company’s website
     www.bajajauto.com

     In respect of the appointment of Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla, a notice in writing in the prescribed manner, as required by section 160 of the Act,
     as amended and as per rules made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding her candidature for the office of the director.

     According to section 152 of the Act, read with Schedule IV to the Act, in the opinion of the Board, the proposed appointment of Smt. Lila Firoz
     Poonawalla as an independent director, fulfils the conditions specified in the Act and the rules made thereunder and also under the Listing
     Regulations and that the proposed appointment of Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla is independent of the Management.

     Pursuant to regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, with effect from 1 April 2019, no listed entity shall appoint a person or continue the
     directorship of any person as a non-executive director who has attained the age of 75 years unless special resolution is passed to that effect.
     Accordingly, considering the significant benefits that can be reaped by the Company from the experience, expertise and mature wisdom of
     Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla, the Board recommends continuation of Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla as independent director beyond 16 September
     2019 on account of her attaining the age of 75 years during the term of her appointment for five consecutive years w.e.f. 1 April 2019 up to
     31 March 2024.

     Information about the appointee:

     Brief resume

     Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla (born on 16 September 1944), holds B. E. Degree in Mechanical Engineering. She has also attended 3-Tier Executive
     Program from IIM Ahmedabad, Marketing Program from Harvard Business School, Senior Executive Program from Stanford University and
     Advanced Marketing & Management program at IMDR Lausanne Switzerland. She is the former Chairperson and Managing Director of Tetra Pak
     India Ltd. and Alfa Laval India Ltd.

     She is serving on the boards of many leading companies. In her long career, she has held many key positions and handled a range of senior
     assignments both in India and abroad, in reputed institutions and bodies.

     She received the Padmashree Award, in the year 1989. She has also received an International recognition from the King of Sweden in 2003, with
     the Polar Star Award and was named as the Officer of the Royal Order

     Major Directorships

     1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd.
     3.   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd.
     4.   VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd.
     5.   Blossom Industries Ltd.
     6.   Kraft Powercon India Ltd.
     7.   Nihilent Ltd.
     8.   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
     .
     * Committee Chairmanships

     1.   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd.
     2.   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd.
     3.   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
     4.   Blossom Industries Ltd.

     *Committee Memberships

     Kraft Powercon India Ltd.

     *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee are considered.


12   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                               Notice


Shareholding in the Company: Nil

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Manufacturing, Operations & Engineering
Human Resources & Industrial Relations, CSR, Sustainability & NGO matters and such other areas.

Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla was not paid any remuneration during the year 2018-19. She will be eligible for payment of sitting fee and
commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

She is not related to any of the directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.

None of the directors or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla, is directly or indirectly concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item
no. 7 of the Notice.

The Board commends the special resolution set out in item no. 7 for approval by shareholders.

Item no. 8 of the Notice

Pradip Panalal Shah (DIN 00066242), on recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee was appointed by the Board of Directors
of the Company as an additional director in the capacity of independent director on 13 March 2019 with effect from 1 April 2019. He holds office
until the ensuing AGM under section 161(1) of the Act.

He has submitted the declaration of independence, pursuant to section 149 (7) of the Act stating that he meets the criteria of independence
as provided in section 149 (6) and regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations. Pradip Panalal Shah is not disqualified from being appointed as a
director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors shall be open for inspection at the registered office of the Company by any
member from Monday to Friday from 10.00 am to 12.30 pm, except holidays and the same shall also be available at the Company’s website
www.bajajauto.com

In respect of the appointment of Pradip Panalal Shah, a notice in writing in the prescribed manner, as required by section 160 of the Act, as
amended and as per rules made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding his candidature for the office of the director.

According to section 152 of the Act, read with Schedule IV to the Act, in the opinion of the Board, the proposed appointment of Pradip
Panalal Shah as an independent director, fulfils the conditions specified in the Act and the rules made thereunder and also under the Listing
Regulations, and that the proposed appointment of Pradip Panalal Shah is independent of the Management.

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Pradip Panalal Shah (born on 07 January 1953), holds a MBA degree from Havard University and was ranked first in the Chartered Accountants’
examinations.

He was the founder Managing Director of CRISIL (India’s first and largest credit rating agency). He assisted in the formation of Housing
Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) and also provided technical assistance and training to Rating Agency Malaysia Berhad and
MAALOT. He has also served as a consultant to USAID, World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. He holds many key positions both in
India and abroad.

He is serving as a Chairman/ Director on the boards of reputed companies.

Major Directorships

1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
2.    Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd.
3.    Pfizer Ltd.
4.    KSB Ltd.
5.    BASF India Ltd.
6.    Tata Investment Corporation Ltd.
7.    Sonata Software Ltd.
8.    Kancor Ingredients Ltd.
9.    Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanships

Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd.




                                                                                                              12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                13
     Notice


     *Committee Memberships

     1.   BASF India Ltd.
     2.   KSB Ltd.
     3.   Kancor Ingredients Ltd.
     4.   Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd.
     5.   Pfizer Ltd.
     6.   Tata Investment Corporation Ltd.
     7.   Sonata Software Ltd.
     *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee are considered.


     Shareholding in the Company: 4,000

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Finance & Taxation, Insurance, Mutual
     Fund & Financial Services, Audit & Risk Management, Law, Corporate Governance & Ethics and such other areas.

     Pradip Panalal Shah was not paid any remuneration during the year 2018-19. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fee and commission, as
     payable to other non- executive directors of the Company.

     He is not related to any of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.

     None of the directors / key managerial personnel/their relatives, except Pradip Panalal Shah, is directly or indirectly concerned or interested,
     financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in
     item no. 8 of the Notice.

     The Board commends the ordinary resolution set out in item no. 8 for approval by the shareholders.

     Item No. 9 & 10 of the Notice

     Based on the recommendations of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 28 March 2014,
     appointed Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani and Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton as independent directors of the Company for the first term of
     consecutive period of five years from 1 April 2014 up to 31 March 2019. These appointments were also approved by the shareholders at seventh
     AGM of the Company held on 17 July 2014.

     Since the first term of these independent directors has expired on 31 March 2019, based on the recommendation of the Nomination and
     Remuneration Committee, considering their skills, experience, knowledge they possess and the report of performance evaluation of
     independent directors for the financial year 2018-19, the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019 recommended for the approval of the
     members, the re appointment of Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani and Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton for a second term of consecutive five years
     with effect from 1 April 2019 up to 31 March 2024 in terms of Section 149 read with Schedule IV of the Act and Listing Regulations or any
     amendment thereto or modification thereof.

     In accordance with Section 149(10) and (11) of the Act, an independent director shall hold office for a term up to five consecutive years on
     the Board of the Company but shall be eligible for re-appointment on passing of a special resolution by the Company and disclosure of such
     appointment in the Board’s report. The aforesaid directors fulfil the requirements of an independent director as laid down under Section 149(6)
     of the Act and regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations.

     In respect of the appointments of the aforesaid directors, a notice in writing in the prescribed manner as required by section 160 of the Act, as
     amended and rules made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding candidature of these directors for the office of the director

     The aforesaid directors have given their consent for the said re-appointment and have also submitted the declaration of independence, as
     required pursuant to section 149(7) of the Act, stating that they meet the criteria of independence as provided in section 149(6) and regulation
     16 of the Listing regulations and are not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

     The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors shall be open for inspection at the registered office of the Company by any
     member from Monday to Friday from 10.00 am to 12.30 pm, except holidays and the same shall also be available at the Company’s website
     www.bajajauto.com

     The Board is of the opinion that these directors possess requisite skills, experience and knowledge relevant to the Company’s business and it
     would be of immense benefit to the Company to continue to have their association with the Company as independent directors of the Company.

     According to section 152 of the Act, read with Schedule IV to the Act, in the opinion of the Board, the proposed re-appointments fulfil the
     conditions specified in the Act and the rules made thereunder and also under the applicable provisions of the Listing Regulations and is
     independent of the Management.

     Pursuant to Regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, with effect from 1 April 2019, no listed entity shall appoint a person or continue the
     directorship of any person as a non-executive director who has attained the age of 75 years, unless special resolution is passed to that effect.



14   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                          Notice


Accordingly, considering the significant benefits reaped by the Company from their experience, expertise and mature advice to the business of
the Company during their tenure as independent directors, the Board recommends re-appointment for a second term of consecutive five years
effective from 1 April 2019 up to 31 March 2024 of Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton, beyond 1 April 2019 on account of his having already
attained age of 75 years as on 1 April 2019 and for continuation of Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani beyond 26 February 2020 on account of his
attaining the age of 75 years on that date.

Brief resume of the independent directors is given below:

1.   Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani (DIN 00053673)

     Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani (born on 26 February 1945) is B A (Hons) from Bombay University (stood first in the University in Economic
     Major) & B Sc (Economics) from London School of Economics (Majored in Economics and Econometrics). He is on the boards of many
     leading companies. In his career spanning over 40-years, he held many key positions and handled a range of senior assignments both in
     India and abroad, which include the following;

     l     Director for Citibank N.A., Asia Pacific Group, based in Singapore.
     l     Non-Executive Chairman of Citibank, N.A., India
     l     Chief Executive Officer, Citibank, N.A., India
     l     Sector Executive Citibank, N.A., Emerging Markets, (Asia, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, and Middle East and Africa)
           based in London.
     l     Division Executive, Citibank, N.A., Asia Pacific Private Banking Group, based in Singapore.
     l     Chief Executive Officer, Citibank, N.A., Philippines, based in Manila.

     His directorships/committee positions are as under:

     Major Directorships

     1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
     3.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     4.    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
     5.    Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
     6.    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd.
     7.    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd.

     *Committee Chairmanships

     1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     3.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.

     *Committee Memberships

     1.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
     2.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     3.    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
     4.    Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
     5     Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd.
     6.    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd.

     *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee are considered.

     Shareholding in the company: Nil.

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Information Technology, Systems
     & Computers, Finance & Taxation, Banking, Investment & Treasury and Forex Management, Insurance, Mutual Fund & Financial Services,
     Audit & Risk Management, Corporate Governance and Ethics and such other areas.

     He was first appointed on the Board with effect from 30 January 2008 and his last drawn remuneration during the year 2018-19 was
     H 32.50 lakh and an additional commission of H 30 lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be
     eligible for payment of sitting fee and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

     Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the
     Corporate Governance Report.

     He is not related to any Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.




                                                                                                         12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                15
     Notice


          None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani, is directly or indirectly concerned
          or interested, financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

     2.   Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton (DIN 00025254)

          Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton (born on 15 December 1939), holds a B.E. Degree in Mechanical Engineering and Associate Member
          of Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering (AMIIIE). He attended the advanced management programme at the European Institute of
          Business Administration (INSEAD) at Fountainbleu, France in 1990.

          He pursued his career as an Industrial Engineer for about 8 years before joining erstwhile ICICI Ltd. (since merged with ICICI Bank Ltd.) in
          1970. After wide ranging responsibilities in different locations, he reached the position of Deputy Managing Director. He subsequently took
          over as the Vice Chairman and Managing Director of SCICI Ltd., in August 1996. With the merger of SCICI Ltd. with ICICI Ltd., he moved to
          Infrastructure Development Finance Co. Ltd. (IDFC), as its first Managing Director, which he served till his superannuation in January 2000.
          He has served as the Non-Executive Chairman of 3M India Ltd. between 2008 and 2014. He is on the boards of many leading companies.

          His directorships/committee positions are as under:

          Major Directorships

          1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
          2.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
          3.   Bajaj Finance Ltd.
          4.   Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
          5.   CMI-FPE Ltd.

          *Committee Chairmanships

          1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
          2.   CMI-FPE Ltd.
          3.   Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.

          *Committee Memberships

          1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
          2.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
          *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee are considered.

          Shareholding in the company: Nil.

          Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Operations & Engineering, Finance & Taxation, Banking,
          Investment & Treasury and Forex Management, Insurance, Mutual Fund & Financial Services, Audit & Risk Management, Corporate
          Governance and Ethics and such other areas.

          He was first appointed on the Board with effect from 30 January 2008 and his last drawn remuneration during the year 2018-19 was H 45
          lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fee and commission,
          as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

          Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the
          Corporate Governance Report.

          He is not related to any Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.

          None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton, is directly or indirectly
          concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

          The Board commends the special resolutions set out in item No. 9 & 10 of the Notice for approval by shareholders.




16   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                               Notice


     Item No. 11 of the Notice

     Bajaj Auto Limited (as erstwhile Bajaj Holdings & Investment Limited) had passed a special resolution at the Extra-Ordinary General
     Meeting of the shareholders on 3 September 2007 to increase the total number of directors from twelve to eighteen and had also obtained
     the approval of the Central Government on 6 November 2007 for the same. Consequent upon foregoing, the strength of the number of
     directors in office was increased to sixteen directors in January 2008. The number of directors in office has continued as sixteen
     since then.

     Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) recently has come out with a notification dated 21 February 2019, vide which every Company
     incorporated on or before 31 December 2017 is required to file the particulars of company and its registered office in e-form INC-22A
     [Active Company Tagging Identities and Verification (ACTIVE)].

     In order to avoid any technical issues in the filing of the form, by way of abundant caution, this special resolution is proposed to be passed
     for the purposes of continuing to maintain the maximum limit of directors at eighteen.

     None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, is directly or indirectly concerned or interested, financially or
     otherwise.

     The Board commends the special resolutions set out in item No. 11 of the Notice for approval by shareholders.


By order of the Board of Directors
for Bajaj Auto Ltd.




Dr. J Sridhar
Company Secretary
Pune: 17 May 2019




                                                                                                            12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                  17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Notice


                           FROM TALEGOAN TOLL PLAZA TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD. (PUNE) VIA SOMATANE PHATA @ 17 KM.
                                                                                                                                                                       BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH
                           FROM TALEGOAN TOLL PLAZA TO MARRIOTT HOTEL (PUNE) VIA BANER ROAD @ 30 KM.                                                                 MUMBAI-PUNE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                     AKURDI, PUNE-411035
                                                                                                                               TAKE A SERVICE ROAD
                                                                                                                 NIGDI
                                                                                                              OCTROI POST            SRIKRISHNA
                                                              SOMATANE                                                                 TEMPLE




BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                PHATA
                                    OLD MUMBAI - PUNE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                       NIGDI CHOWK                               TAKE A RIGHT TURN
                                                                         TOLL PLAZA                        BHAKTI-SHAKTI                                                                         BELOW THE FLYOVER
                                                                                                              SHILP                                                                             UNIVERSITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CIRCLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S.B. R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OAD
                                 TAKE A LEFT TURN
                               TO SOMATANE PHATA                                                                                                               TAKE A SERVICE ROAD
                                                                                                                                           HINJEWADI           JUST BEFORE FLYOVER
                                FOR BAJAJ AUTO LTD.                                                                                         FLYOVER                                             SADANAND
                             - 3KM. FROM TOLL PLAZA                                                                                          ABOVE               OCTROI POST                     RESORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MARRIOTT
                                                                                                MUMBAI-BANGALORE EXPRESS WAY                                                                                       PUNE HOTEL &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONVENTIONAL CENTRE
                                                      GO STRAIGHT FOR
                                     B AI             MARRIOTT HOTEL                                                            WAKAD                           BALEWADI ORCHID                                 SENAPATI BAPAT ROAD
                                 MUM                                                                                            FLYOVER                          SPORTS   VITS                                     PUNE - 411053
                            FROM          TALEGOAN                                                                                                              COMPLEX
                                         TOLL PLAZA




                           FROM MARRIOTT HOTEL, PUNE TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD. @ 18 KM. & BACK TO HOTEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH




                                                                                           AD
                                                         CHATURSHRINGI




                                                                                         RO
                                                                                       R
                                                            TEMPLE




                                                                                    NE

                                                                         NCL ROAD
                                                                                    BA
                                                      S.B. RO
                                                             AD                              AD
                          MARRIOTT                                                   AUNDH RO   BREMEN
                        PUNE HOTEL &                                                            CHOWK
                                                                           UNIVERSITY
                     CONVENTIONAL CENTRE                IND   ROAD           CIRCLE                  SPICER COLLEGE
                     SENAPATI BAPAT ROAD           SHKH
                                               GANE
                        PUNE - 411053
                                                                               Dr. BABASAHEB           BHAU PATIL ROAD
                                                                                 AMBEDKAR
                                                                                    CHOWK                                                                 TAKE A SERVICE ROAD
                                                                                                                              RAILWAY BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                          JUST BEFORE FLYOVER                   RATNALOK
                                                                                                                                                                                     KHANDOBA     HOTEL                 NIGDI
                                                                                                                                                            PREMIUM GREAVES            CHOWK                           CHOWK
                                                                                                                               OLD MUMBAI-PUNE ROAD
                                                                                                 BOPODI CHOWK              HARRIS BRIDGE
                                      FROM MUMBAI TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD.                                                                                                          STAR   KHANDOBA
                                                                                                                                                                             BAZAR     TEMPLE
                                      MUMBAI PUNE ROAD, AKURDI PUNE-411035
                                      FROM MUMBAI TO MARRIOTT
                                      PUNE HOTELS & CONVENTIONAL CENTRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                      FROM MARRIOTT PUNE HOTELS & CONVENTIONAL                                                                                                                   MUMBAI-PUNE ROAD
                                      CENTRE TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD. AKURDI, PUNE-411035                                                                                                              AKURDI, PUNE-411035
12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19



                                                                                                                                BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                                                (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
                                                                                                                                Registered office:
                                                                                                                                Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035
                                                                                                                                E-mail: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                                                                                Website: www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                                                Phone: (020)27472851, Fax: (020)27407380



                                                                         PROXY FORM
                                                                              Form No. MGT-11
                 [Pursuant to section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]


CIN                                                    :    L65993PN2007PLC130076
Name of the Company                                    :    BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
Registered office                                      :    Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035

Name of the member (s)                                 :     __________________________________________________________________________________________
Registered address                                     :     __________________________________________________________________________________________
E-mail ID                                              :     __________________________________________________________________________________________
Folio No/Client ID/DP ID                               :     __________________________________________________________________________________________

I/We, being the member(s) of ______________ shares of the above named Company, hereby appoint:
(1)     Name        : _____________________________                   Address      : ____________________________________
        E-mail Id : _____________________________                     Signature    : ____________________________________                  or failing him

(2)     Name        : _____________________________                   Address      : ____________________________________
        E-mail Id : _____________________________                     Signature    : ____________________________________                  or failing him

as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on a poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the TWELFTH annual general meeting of the Company, to
be held on Friday, 26 July 2019 at 12.15 p.m. at Bajaj Auto Ltd. Complex, Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 and at any adjournment
thereof in respect of such resolutions as are indicated below:

 Item                                                                                     Item
  No.     Description                                                   For     Against    No.   Description                                                 For   Against


          Ordinary Business                                                                      Special Business
  1       Adoption of financial statements for the financial year                          5     Appointment of Rakesh Sharma as a Director
          ended 31 March 2019 and Directors’ and Auditors’                                 6     Approval of appointment of Rakesh Sharma as a Whole-
          Reports thereon                                                                        time Director, with the designation as Executive Director
  2       Declaration of dividend of H 60 per equity share, for the                        7     Appointment of Lila Firoz Poonawalla as an
          year ended 31 March 2019                                                               independent director
  3       Re-appointment of Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj,                                  8     Appointment of Pradip Panalal Shah as an
          who retires by rotation                                                                independent director
  4       Re-appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava, who                                       9     Re-appointment of Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani as an
          retires by rotation                                                                    independent director
                                                                                          10     Re-appointment of Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton as an
                                                                                                 independent director
                                                                                          11     Maintaining the number of maximum directors of the
                                                                                                 Company.

  Signed this_______ day of _________ 2019

                          Affix
                        revenue
                         stamp
                         of H 1

           Signature of shareholder                                                                             Signature of Proxy holder(s)

Note:
1. This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed, signed, stamped and deposited at the Registered
   Office of the Company, not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
2. As provided under Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, shareholder may vote either for or against each resolution.
    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
    (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
                                                     ATTENDANCE SLIP
    Registered office:
    Bajaj Auto Ltd. complex,
    Mumbai–Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
    E-mail: investors@bajajauto.co.in                                                                12th Annual Report 2018-19
    Website: www.bajajauto.com
    Phone: (020) 27472851, Fax: (020) 27407380


    Reg. Folio No./DP Id No./Client Id No.:                      Folio No./DP Id No./Client Id No.

    Name & Address :                                             Name
                                                                 Add 1
                                                                 Add 2
                                                                 Add 3
                                                                 Add 4
                                                                 PIN

    Name(s) of Joint Member(s),if any :                          Joint Holder 1
                                                                 Joint Holder 2

    No. of Shares held :                                         Shares




    I/We certify that I/we am/are member(s)/proxy for the member(s) of the Company.

    I/We hereby record my/our presence at the TWELFTH annual general meeting of the Company on
    Friday, 26 July 2019 at 12.15 p.m. at the registered office of the Company at Mumbai-Pune Road,
    Akurdi, Pune 411 035.




                                                                     Signature of First holder/Proxy/Authorised Representative




                                                                                                       Signature of Joint holder(s)


    Place:
    Date:

    Notes:
    1. Please sign this attendance slip and hand it over at the meeting venue.
    2. Only shareholders of the Company and/or their Proxy will be allowed to attend the Meeting.




                                                        E-VOTING
                            Users who wish to opt for e-voting may use the following login credentials:

          EVEN (E-VOTING EVENT NO.)                            USER ID                                   PASSWORD




Note:
l     Please follow steps for remote e-voting procedure as given in the Notice of AGM by logging on to -
      https://evoting.karvy.com

l     Instructions for e-voting procedure are available in the Notice of annual general meeting and are also placed
      on the website of the Company.
                           Bajaj Auto Limited
12 ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19
 th
                                     Since 1945
CONTENTS
Board of Directors                            02

Management Team                               04

Chairman’s Letter                             07

Management Discussion and Analysis             09

Corporate Governance                          35

General Shareholder Information               57

Directors’ Report                             67
(including Annual Report on CSR activities)

Standalone Financial Statements               113

Consolidated Financial Statements             187
Board of Directors                        Duplicate Share Certificate               Company Secretary
                                          Issuance Committee
Rahul Bajaj, Chairman                                                               Dr. J Sridhar
Madhur Bajaj, Vice Chairman               Rahul Bajaj, Chairman
Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director            Rajiv Bajaj                               Auditors
Sanjiv Bajaj                              Sanjiv Bajaj
D S Mehta (upto 31.03.2019)                                                         S R B C & CO LLP
Shekhar Bajaj                             Management                                Chartered Accountants
D J Balaji Rao
Nanoo Pamnani                             Rahul Bajaj                               Secretarial Auditor
Manish Kejriwal (upto 31.12.2018)         Chairman
P Murari (upto 31.03.2019)                                                          Shyamprasad D Limaye
Niraj Bajaj                               Rajiv Bajaj                               Practising Company Secretary
Dr. Gita Piramal                          Managing Director
Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director                                             Bankers
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        Pradeep Shrivastava
Dr. Omkar Goswami                         Executive Director                        State Bank of India
Anami N. Roy                                                                        Citibank N A
Rakesh Sharma, Executive Director         Rakesh Sharma                             Standard Chartered Bank
(from 01.01.2019)                         Executive Director                        ICICI Bank
Lila Poonawalla (from 01.04.2019)                                                   HDFC Bank
Pradip Shah (from 01.04.2019)             Abraham Joseph                            HSBC Bank
                                          Chief Technology Officer
Audit Committee                                                                     Registered under the
                                          R C Maheshwari                            Companies Act, 1956
Nanoo Pamnani, Chairman                   President (Intra-City Business)
D J Balaji Rao                                                                      Registered Office
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        Eric Vas
Dr. Gita Piramal                          President (Urbanite Business)             Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                    Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
Stakeholders Relationship                 Kevin D’sa
Committee                                 President (Retail Finance)                CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

D J Balaji Rao, Chairman                  S Ravikumar                               Works
Dr. Gita Piramal                          President (Business Development
Dr. Omkar Goswami                         and Assurance)                            •   Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                        Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
Nomination and Remuneration               Ravi Kyran Ramasamy
Committee                                 President (Human Resources)               •   Bajaj Nagar,
                                                                                        Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136.
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman                  Subash Rao
Rahul Bajaj                               President (New Projects)                  •   Chakan Industrial Area,
Dr. Gita Piramal                                                                        Chakan, Pune 410 501.
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        Soumen Ray
                                          President (Finance), CFO                  •   Plot No.2, Sector 10,
Corporate Social                                                                        IIE Pantnagar,
Responsibility Committee                  Sarang Kanade                                 Udhamsinghnagar,
                                          President (Motorcycle Business)               Uttarakhand 263 531.
Rahul Bajaj, Chairman
Rajiv Bajaj                               K S Grihapathy
Nanoo Pamnani                             Senior Vice President (Export Business)
Pradeep Shrivastava
                                          Sumeet Narang
Risk Management Committee                 Vice President (Probiking Business)

Nanoo Pamnani, Chairman                   C P Tripathi
D J Balaji Rao                            Advisor (CSR)
Soumen Ray, CFO
Rahul Bajaj
Chairman
MANAGEMENT TEAM
Front Row: (L to R)
Eric Vas, Rakesh Sharma, Pradeep Shrivastava, Rajiv Bajaj,
Abraham Joseph, R C Maheshwari, S Ravikumar, Kevin D’sa

Back Row: (L to R)
Ravi Kyran Ramasamy, Soumen Ray, Sarang Kanade,
K S Grihapathy, Sumeet Narang, Subash Rao, C P Tripathi
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
Dear Shareholder,
Let me start by clearly saying that I am delighted with your Company’s results for FY2019
and proud of the excellent work carried out by your Managing Director and his team.

FY2019 has not been a particularly brilliant year from an economic point of view.
The second advance estimate of the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO) has pegged
real GDP growth at 7.0%, and real growth of gross value added (GVA) at 6.8%. Both these
estimates are lower than what occurred a year earlier.

Moreover, growth has slowed down on a quarterly basis. After posting an impressive
7.8% growth in April-June 2018, GVA growth reduced to 6.8% for July-September 2018,
and then even further to 6.3% for October-December 2018. And the CSO’s muted advance
estimate of 6.8% GVA growth for the full year suggests that the fourth quarter may also
post modest growth.

Despite such a milieu, your Company has performed admirably. Allow me to outline the
key results.

l   Total turnover increased by 18.5% to H 31,899 crore. This is your Company’s highest
    ever top-line.

l   Total operating income (net sales plus other operating income) grew by 20.1% to
    H 30,540 crore — also Bajaj Auto’s highest.

l   Operating EBITDA increased by 4.7% to H 5,387 crore.

l   Profit before tax (PBT) after exceptional items grew by 15.9% to H 6,703 crore,
    which was also the best for Bajaj Auto.

l   Profit after tax (PAT) increased by 14.9% to H 4,675 crore — this, too, being the
    highest ever.

l   Surplus cash and cash equivalents as on 31 March 2019 was up by 5.3% to
    H 16,368 crore.

There are several positive aspects of your Company’s performance. Let me share three.

First, and this pleases me no end, with a combination of well styled, appealing products
and astute pricing, Bajaj Auto has begun to grow its domestic market share in
motorcycles. In the course of a single year, FY2019, your Company succeeded in
increasing its domestic sale of motorcycles by almost 29% — and, in the process, grew its
market share by 3 percentage points to 18.7%. In fact, for March 2019, the market share
exceeded 20.0%. I hope that we are seeing the beginning of a trend that will continue to
increase your Company’s share of motorcycles in the domestic market and, in doing so,
take Bajaj Auto to a place that behoves its presence.

Second, I am delighted that in FY2019 your Company exported over 2 million motorcycles,
three-wheelers plus its new quadricycle, the QUTE, to no less than 79 countries.
This is a landmark achievement, and represents a growth of 25% over the previous
 year — one that truly lends itself to the theme of this year’s annual report,
‘The World’s Favourite Indian’.




                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19   7
    Chairman’s Letter




              Third, I continue to remain impressed with your Company’s performance in the three-wheelers space.
              In FY2019, Bajaj Auto’s overall three-wheeler sales grew by more than 22% to reach an all-time high.
              Much of this growth was driven by an impressive 43% growth in exports. Your Company accounted for
              almost 57% of total three-wheeler sales in India, and two-thirds of total sales to export markets.

              At my age, I am a bit superstitious about praise. Even so, on your behalf, let me congratulate your
              Managing Director and his team. While telling them, “This is great. Now take it to yet another level.”

              Finally, my thanks to our customers, dealers, vendors and employees who, as always, have done their
              utmost for Bajaj Auto. And to you for your steadfast support.


              With best regards,




              Rahul Bajaj
              Chairman

              17 May 2019




8   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
   The World’s Favourite Indian
   “Do what you think best,                             design motorcycles that are loved not just in
    but be the best in what you do.”                    India but in 79 countries around the world.
   These words of our founder, Kamalnayan               Bajaj Auto has grown to become India’s No.1
   Bajaj, have always guided Bajaj Auto.                motorcycle exporter — with two out of three
                                                        bikes carrying a Bajaj badge.
   In the 1970s and 1980s, being best meant
   Hamara Bajaj — a clarion cry associated with         We have sold 15 million motorcycles in 79
   the Chetak, the scooter which symbolised the         countries. 40% of our revenues now come
   country’s aspirations of the times, and              from international markets. Our global sales
   provided the first mass personal mobility            have earned over US$ 13 billion of foreign
   to Indians.                                          exchange in the last decade. And in FY2019,
                                                        we achieved two prominent milestones —
   Being best meant launching the iconic Pulsar
                                                        total sales of 5 million units, of which
   in 2001. With that, Bajaj Auto transformed
                                                        2 million were international sales.
   from being a domestic scooter manufacturer
   to a global motorcycle powerhouse.                   With sales across 79 nations, Bajaj Auto has
   Pulsar was powered by the spirit of                  set a gold standard for ‘Make in India’ to
   entrepreneurship in an age of economic               ‘Sell to the World’.
   freedom. It embodied bold differentiation to
                                                        By doing so, we are, today,
   dramatically create new markets instead of
                                                        The World’s Favourite Indian.
   unimaginatively serving existing ones.
                                                        We aren’t resting. We aspire for the day
   Being best meant having a major global
                                                        when we become a true Global Motorcycle
   presence. And we do…
                                                        Specialist — a day when in any market
   Building on our credo to provide trusted and         around the world, when people think of
   reliable mobility solutions, we significantly        motorcycles, they will think of Bajaj.
   invested in technology and innovation to




Though India, along with China, are the two fastest growing continental sized emerging markets of the
world, it is a fact that growth has been slowing down for both nations.

The second advance estimate of national income released by the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO) of
the Government of India on 28 February 2019 estimated India’s real GDP growth for 2018-19 (or FY2019)
at 7.0% — a 20 basis points decline compared to the previous year. Real gross value added (GVA) growth
for FY2019 is also lower: 6.8% versus 6.9% in FY2018. Moreover, the quarterly estimates also indicate
a growth slowdown: 7.8% GVA growth in Q1 FY2019, followed by 6.8% in Q2 and then 6.3% in Q3.

At the time of writing this Management Discussion and Analysis, we do not know what the growth rate
will be for the fourth quarter, i.e. January-March 2019. But, in all probability, it will not be high enough
to convincingly lift the economy.

In the context of developed OECD economies, it seems strange that we get concerned with an annual
growth rate of 6.8%. Richer countries would pine for such a performance. Yet, we have good reasons
to worry when growth falls below 7.5% per year. For it constrains our capacity to create the additional
employment that India needs — the more so in a rapidly digitised age where the need for additional
employment is becoming lesser than before.



                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19   9
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              India is not alone in going through a phase of slower growth. Chart A plots GDP growth rates of India
              and China from 2008 to 2018. Both nations are slowing down, China more than India.


                                  Chart A: Real GDP Growth, China and India (% per year)


                          12


                          10


                           8


                           6


                           4


                           2
                                                           Source: IMF, World Economic Outlook Database, October 2018

                           0
                               FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018

                                                            India                         China


              In such a context, two questions need to be examined. First, how did India’s two-and three-wheeler
              industry fare as a whole? And second, how did Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘Bajaj Auto’ or ‘BAL’) perform
              vis-à-vis its peers?

              Regarding the first question, India’s two-and three-wheeler industry in the aggregate has done quite well.

              Sale of motorcycles in India in FY2019 grew by 7.8% to touch 13.6 million units. Though the growth rate
              was less than in the previous year, it was nevertheless an impressive performance given the slowing
              down of overall economic growth. In addition, motorcycle exports increased by 15.4% in FY2019 to
              almost 2.9 million units.

              The problem was with ungeared scooters. Hitherto a favourite of a growing class of consumers,
              domestic sale of ungeared scooters hit a wall — being virtually flat at 6.7 million units in FY2019.
              That was a far cry from the 19.9% growth in domestic sales that this segment had experienced
              in FY2018.

              As in motorcycles, three-wheelers also witnessed a healthy increase in domestic sales. The number of
              three-wheelers sold in India in FY2019 grew by 10.3% to over 701,000 units. More significantly,
              three-wheeler exports increased by 49.0% to over 567,500 units.

              Now to the second question: how did Bajaj Auto fare in this growth story? In two words, ‘exceptionally
              well’. The numbers tell the story.




10   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Charts B and C illustrate Bajaj Auto’s financial performance.
Chart D shows the overall industry's sale of two-wheelers.



                                                                                            Chart B: EBITDA and EBITDA %

                                                                5500                                                                                                                 25




                                                                                                                                                                                          EBITDA (% of total operating income)
                                                                                                                                         22.2
                                                                5000               21.7                                                            21.7                              23
                                                                                            20.4                      21.2
                                                                                                     20.2     19.6             20.1                           20.2
                                                                4500                                                                                                                 21
EBITDA (H In Crore)




                                                                4000                                                                                                     17.6        19
                                                                3500                                                                                                                 17
                                                                3000                                                                                                                 15
                                                                2500      13.6                                                                                                       13
                                                                2000                                                                                                                 11
                                                                1500                                                                                                                 9
                                                                1000                                                                                                                 7
                                                                 500                                                                                                                 5
                                                                   0                                                                                                                 3
                                                                         FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019

                                                                                                            EBITDA                EBITDA%


                                                                                          Chart C: Net Sales and Operating Income,
                                                                                                Net Operating Profit and PAT
                                                               32000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Net Operating Profit and PAT (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                                5500
                 Net Sales and Operating Income (H In Crore)




                                                                                                                                                                                5000
                                                               28000
                                                                                                                                                                      4,675     4500
                                                               24000                                                                                                            4000
                                                                                                                                                              4,068
                                                               20000                                                                     3,930     3,828                        3500
                                                                                                                      3,243                                                     3000
                                                               16000                                 3,004    3,044
                                                                                            3,340                              2,814
                                                                                                                                                                                2500
                                                               12000                                                                                                            2000

                                                               8000                                                                                                             1500
                                                                                  1,704
                                                                                                                                                                                1000
                                                               4000
                                                                          656                                                                                                   500
                                                                  0                                                                                                             0
                                                                        FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019

                                                                                  Net Sales and Operating Income                       Net Operating Profit                 PAT


                                                                       Chart D: Industry Sale of Two-Wheelers, Domestic + Exports
                                                                                             (In Million Units)
                                                         26
                                                         24                                                                                                                   8.00
                                                         22                                                                                                       7.91
                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                      6.81
                                                         18                                                                                 6.03
                                                                                                                                 5.47
                                                         16                                                            4.43
                                                                                                              3.81                                                          16.47
                                                         14                                          3.44
                                                                                                                                                                 15.10
                                                         12                                2.83
                                                                                                                                13.00      12.91      13.12
                                                                                                    11.94     11.95   12.46
                                                         10                      2.07
                                                                                          10.50
                                                          8            1.64      8.44
                                                          6            6.81
                                                          4
                                                          2
                                                          0
                                                                   FY2009       FY2010    FY2011    FY2012   FY2013   FY2014    FY2015    FY2016     FY2017      FY2018    FY2019

                                                                                                    Motorcycles               Other Two-Wheelers
      J  A U T O ’ S
 BAJA CIAL
 FINANORMANCEUTO
    RFAJA     J   A
 PEB    Y 2 0 1 9
                                   C I A L
                                AN
 FO R F
  FIN F O  R  M   A  N C E
                          1 9
    R
PE FOR FY2
 Total turnover
 grew by 18.5% to
 H 31,899 crore —
 the Company’s
                        0
                    Total operating
                    income (net sales
                    plus other
                    operating income)
                                        Net sales
                                        increased by
                                        19.7% to
                                        H 29,567 crore.
                                                            Operating
                                                            earnings before
                                                            interest, tax,
                                                            depreciation and
                                                                                 The operating
                                                                                 EBITDA margin
                                                                                 was 17.6% of net
                                                                                 sales and other
 highest ever.      grew by 20.1% to    This, too, is the   amortisation         operating income
                    H 30,540 crore —    highest.            (EBITDA)
                    also Bajaj Auto’s                       increased by 4.7%
                    highest.                                to H 5,387 crore
                                                            — yet again,
                                                            a historical high.
Operating proﬁt      Proﬁt before tax    Proﬁt before tax    Proﬁt after tax    Surplus cash
increased by 6.0%    (PBT) before        (PBT) after         (PAT) increased    and cash
to H 5,117 crore.    exceptional items   exceptional items   by 14.9% to        equivalents as on
The operating        grew by 9.4% to     grew by 15.9% to    H 4,675 crore —    31 March 2019
proﬁt margin was     H 6,361 crore,      H 6,703 crore.      also the highest   was up by 5.3% to
16.8% of net sales   which was also      This, too, was      ever PAT           H 16,368 crore
and other            the highest ever.   the Company’s
operating income                         highest ever PBT.
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              Motorcycles
              We start with the industry’s overall domestic sale plus exports of two-wheelers, namely motorcycles
              and other two-wheelers. The data is presented in Chart D.

              Coming on the back of 15.1% growth in FY2018, the industry’s domestic sale and exports of motorcycles
              further increased by 9.1% in FY2019 to 16.47 million units. This could not be said of the sale of other
              two-wheelers, mostly comprising ungeared scooters — where domestic sale plus exports grew by a mere
              1.1% to 8.0 million units. After several years of impressive double-digit growth, domestic sale of other
              two-wheelers was flat. That it managed to eke a positive growth was entirely on account of exports.

              How did Bajaj Auto perform in this milieu?

              In a sentence, it performed excellently and significantly increased its market share — both in
              India and abroad.

              Table 1 gives the data.


              Table 1: Sale of Motorcycles, Domestic and Exports (in numbers)
                                    Motorcycles Domestic Sales                                      Motorcycles Exports
              Year               Total      Total       BAL’s               BAL's        Total     Total       BAL’s                 BAL's
              ended             sales       sales       sales     BAL's    market     exports    export      exports       BAL's    market
              31 March          (nos.)    growth        (nos.)   growth     share       (nos.)   growth        (nos.)     growth     share


              2015         10,743,549       2.5%     1,770,778   (15.6%)   16.5%    2,251,791    13.6%     1,521,306       15.0%    67.6%
              2016         10,700,466      (0.4%)    1,898,957     7.2%    17.7%    2,208,932    (1.9%)    1,459,295       (4.1%)   66.1%
              2017         11,094,543       3.7%     2,001,391     5.4%    18.0%    2,025,529    (8.3%)    1,218,541      (16.5%)   60.2%
              2018         12,613,241      13.7%     1,974,577    (1.3%)   15.7%    2,483,297    22.6%     1,394,757       14.5%    56.2%
              2019         13,599,678       7.8%     2,541,320    28.7%    18.7%    2,865,851    15.4%     1,695,553       21.6%    59.2%


              Let us start with domestic sales of motorcycles. Here are the facts for FY2019:
              l   Total domestic sales of all motorcycles grew by 7.8% to almost 13.6 million units
              l   Bajaj Auto’s sales increased by 28.7% to over 2.5 million units
              l   Consequently, Bajaj Auto’s share in the domestic motorcycles market increased by 3 percentage
                  points to 18.7%

              Regarding export performance for FY2019:
              l  Total exports of motorcycles increased by 15.4% to over 2.86 million units
              l  Bajaj Auto’s sales went up by 21.6% to almost 1.7 million units
              l  As a result, the Company’s share in total exports of motorcycles grew by 3 percentage points to 59.2%

              We need to go a bit deeper into these numbers, especially in order to explain what is happening to the
              different motorcycle segments within the domestic market.

              It is useful to begin with the ‘entry-level’ segment. Bajaj Auto is represented here by the CT100 and
              the Platina.
              l    For FY2018, the average sale of all models by every player in this segment was 268,904 units
                   per month. The segment had grown by 24% over the previous year, and had accounted for 26% of all
                   motorcycles sold during FY2018. Bajaj Auto was the major player in this segment. In FY2018, it sold
                   an average of 79,297 units per month, and accounted for 29.5% of this segment.
              l    In FY2019, while average sale of all models in this segment increased by 26%, Bajaj Auto’s sale
                   increased by 51.6% to an average of 120,249 units per month. As a result, Bajaj Auto’s share of this
                   segment increased to 35.4% — a solid 6 percentage point increase in the segmental market share.


                     At the entry-level segment, Bajaj Auto not only played a key role in growing the segment,
                     but also captured greater market share in doing so.




14   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                             Management Discussion and Analysis




That brings us to the ‘sports’ segment. Here, we have our Pulsars, ranging from 150 cc to 220 cc and
the Avenger.

In FY2019, sales in the ‘sports’ segment grew by 18% over the previous year and accounted for 16% of
the industry’s total domestic sales. Bajaj Auto’s average volume of sales was 80,294 units per month,
or a dominating segment market share of 44.1% — up by 5.1 percentage points over a single year.


    With our Pulsars and Avengers, Bajaj Auto is clearly the dominating leader in the sports
    segment. And our segment share increased further in FY2019.



In the even higher ‘super-sports’ segment; we offer the entire range of KTMs, the Pulsar RS200 and
the Dominar 400. This segment grew by 5% in FY2019 and accounted for a share of 7% in the domestic
market. We sold an average of 6,252 units per month during the year, or 7.4% of the segment.



    l   The ‘entry-level’ segment will continue to grow in India as an increasing number of
        first-time motorcycle buyers come into the market. So long as we produce differentiated
        products that match reliability and fuel efficiency with modern styles and riding comfort,
        we will maintain our leadership position in this segment.

    l   The other end of the spectrum — the ‘sports’ and ‘super-sports’ segment — will also grow.
        Young people with enough purchasing power will want to own bikes that have power,
        give the thrill of speed, manoeuvrability and the ability to chase the wind. With our
        upper end Pulsars, KTMs, the newly upgraded Dominars and the soon to be launched
        Husqvarnas, we should continue having a solid presence in this space.


Tomorrow’s challenge is how to systematically introduce appealing, sporty yet fuel efficient models that
fills the large ‘commuter’ segment with more exciting and attractive alternatives. When that happens,
a very large number of Indian customers will move away from the hardy perennials to the thrilling new
models. This is no place for Bajaj Auto’s Management to state what it might do to reorient this segment.
Except to say, “Watch out for this space”.


KTM: Our Continuing Success
FY2019 was a milestone year for KTM.



    Who would have thought even five years ago that premium sports bikes costing over
    J 1.5 lakh a piece would not just enjoy a growing market in India, but also succeed in selling
    over 200,000 units worldwide? It has.

    Moreover, in FY2019, KTM also sold over 50,000 bikes in India.

    This has made India the largest market for KTM worldwide — overtaking the USA.



Despite sales crossing the 50,000 mark, it needs stating that FY2019 was also a challenging year for
KTM. There were aggressive competitor launches, which needed to be countered. That happened with
bringing into the market the KTM Duke125 in Q3 FY2019. The Duke125, being an entry level KTM,
played a strategic role of bringing in new customers into the franchise, and helped the brand to recover
its market position and volumes in the second half of FY2019.

The availability of KTM throughout urban India has continued to strengthen. It now has a presence in
460 showrooms across the country — the largest network for any premium sports motorcycle brand.




                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19    15
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              Chart E plots the growth of KTM sales in India.


                                              Chart E: KTM Sales in India (number of bikes sold)


                                   55000
                                                                                                                           50,705
                                   50000                                                                        46,321
                                   45000
                                   40000
                                                                                                   34,970
                   Annual Volume




                                   35000                                            30,362
                                   30000
                                   25000                              22,627
                                   20000
                                   15000
                                                      11,050
                                   10000    7,399
                                    5000
                                       0
                                           FY2013     FY2014          FY2015        FY2016         FY2017       FY2018     FY2019


              Commercial Vehicles: Three-Wheelers
              We are the world’s largest manufacturer and seller of three-wheelers. Our performance in this
              segment is given in Table 2.

              Table 2: Three-Wheeler Sales, Industry and Bajaj Auto (in numbers)

                                                                Total sales                    Domestic sales                       Exports

              Particulars                            FY2019        FY2018      FY2017    FY2019      FY2018     FY2017    FY2019     FY2018    FY2017



              Passenger carriers
              Industry sales                        1,133,908     894,234      671,034   572,392     517,423    402,034   561,516    376,811   269,000
              Bajaj Auto sales                       745,254      612,590      431,022   368,208     346,846    240,064   377,046    265,744   190,958
              Bajaj Auto market share                  65.7%        68.5%       64.2%     64.3%       67.0%      59.7%     67.1%      70.5%     71.0%
              Goods carriers
              Industry sales                         134,792      122,466      112,518   128,619     118,275    109,624     6,173      4,191     2,894
              Bajaj Auto sales                        32,349        23,262      13,440    30,618      22,791     13,162     1,731       471       278
              Bajaj Auto market share                  24.0%        19.0%       11.9%     23.8%       19.3%      12.0%     28.0%      11.2%      9.6%
              Total three-wheelers
              Industry sales                        1,268,700    1,016,700     783,552   701,011     635,698    511,658   567,689    381,002   271,894
              Bajaj Auto sales                       777,603      635,852      444,462   398,826     369,637    253,226   378,777    266,215   191,236
              Bajaj Auto market share                  61.3%        62.5%       56.7%     56.9%       58.1%      49.5%     66.7%      69.9%     70.3%




                    l              In FY2019, our overall three-wheeler sales grew by more than 22% over the
                                   previous year to reach an all-time high of 777,603 units.
                    l              Our export of three-wheelers increased by over 42% to hit a record number
                                   of 378,777 units.
                    l              Our domestic three-wheeler sales grew by almost 8% to a record of 398,826 units.
                    l              We are the market leaders by far. In FY2019, we accounted for 56.9% of total
                                   three-wheelers in the domestic market; and two-thirds of total sales to export markets.
                    l              In passenger vehicles, we enjoy dominant market leadership — more than 64% of sales to
                                   domestic and over 67% of sales to export markets.




16   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Management Discussion and Analysis




     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19      17
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              l   Particularly heartening has been our robust performance in the goods carrier business — an area
                  that we entered three years earlier. In a short span of time, we have increased domestic sales to
                  30,618 units, and now account for almost 24% of this segment’s market share.

              l   We continue to dominate the petrol and alternate fuel market — a segment in which we sold
                  282,406 vehicles in FY2019 with a domestic market share of 86%.

              l   In the small diesel category, our market share now stands at 80%. In the larger diesel segment,
                  our market share has grown from 24% to 26%. In the overall diesel category, therefore, our market
                  share for FY2019 as a whole stood at 37%. We exited FY2019 with a market share of 39% — making
                  us the market leader in Q4 among all diesel three-wheelers.

              l   Our quadricycle, QUTE, was successfully launched in four states: Kerala, Gujarat, Odisha and
                  Rajasthan. We will continue to launch it in other states as well. In FY2019, we sold 627 units of Qute
                  in the domestic market.


              International Business
              This is all about being the World’s Favourite Indian.

              While FY2018 was the recovery year for Bajaj Auto, FY2019 saw us gaining significant momentum and
              further strengthening our position as the leading Indian exporter of motorcycles and three-wheelers.


                  In FY2019
                  l   We celebrated exporting over 2 million vehicles — a worthy landmark and our highest ever
                  l   We were present in 79 countries. Of these, we are either ranked No.1 or No.2 in 21 countries.




              Table 3 gives the export data.


              Table 3: Export, in Units and Revenue, for Bajaj Auto

              Particulars                                                         FY2019          FY2018         Growth



              Exports in Units
              Motorcycles                                                        1,695,553      1,394,757          21.6%
              Commercial Vehicles                                                 383,177         267,820          43.1%
              Total (in numbers)                                                2,078,730      1,662,577          25.0%
              Exports in J (crore)                                                 11,845           9,703         22.1%
              Exports in USD (million)                                               1,642          1,365         20.3%

              During FY2019:
              l  Motorcycle exports grew by 21.6% to almost 1.7 million units
              l  Commercial vehicles exports by over 43% to almost 383,200 units
              l  Together, the World’s Favourite Indian exported over 2 million units — a growth of 25% in the course
                 of a single year
              l  In US dollars, revenue from exports grew by over 20% to US$ 1.6 billion

              Our motorcycle exports in FY2019 grew on the back of:
              l  Very strong growth in Africa, as large economies like Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of
                 Congo continued to show buoyant demand. We also entered new markets, for example Benin,
                 and continued to solidify our leadership position in Africa
              l  A strong presence in the ASEAN region, aided by growth in the Philippines and in new markets
                 like Malaysia




18   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                               Management Discussion and Analysis




l                     Growth in South Asia and Middle East, where we capitalised on recovery in Egypt and impressive
                      economic growth in Bangladesh
l                     Stable volumes in Latin America, despite economic turmoil in Argentina and some political and
                      trade uncertainties in Mexico

Our growth in three-wheeler exports was largely driven by:
l  Continued recovery in large, traditional markets such as Egypt and Nigeria
l  And, more importantly, strong growth in new markets especially Cambodia, Iraq, Myanmar and
   Nepal. In fact, such markets, where we entered only in the last four years, grew by 73% compared to
   the overall growth of three-wheelers and quadricycles exports of 43%

Chart F shows the distribution of Bajaj Auto’s exports across broad regions. Chart G plots our export
performance over the years, both in value and as a share of the Company’s total net sales.


                            Chart F: Share of Bajaj Auto’s Exports (in numbers) by Major Regions

                           100
                            90
                            80                         31%                                               28%

                            70
                                                                                                         14%
                            60                         18%
                                                                                                         11%
                            50
                                                       10%
                            40
                            30
                                                       41%                                               47%
                            20
                            10
                             0
                                                      FY2018                                         FY2019


                                             Africa          ASEAN           Latin America           South Asia & Middle East



As Chart G shows, we have increased our share of exports to net sales from a recent low of 36.9% in
FY2017 to 40.1% in FY2019. We are optimistic about FY2020 — a year in which we intend to further
strengthen our competitive position as well as invest in new markets and categories.


                                             Chart G: Bajaj Auto’s Export Performance


                           12000                                                     46.2                                  50
                           11000
                                                                                             44.1
                                                                            41.6                                           45
                                                                                                           39.3     40.1
                           10000
                                                                                                    36.9                   40
                                                                                                                                As a % of Net Sales




                                                             34.2    34.4
    Exports (H In Crore)




                            9000
                            8000
                                      31.3                                                                                 35
                                              28.2    28.0
                            7000                                                                                           30

                            6000                                                                                           25
                            5000                                                                                           20
                            4000
                                                                                                                           15
                            3000
                                                                                                                           10
                            2000
                            1000                                                                                           5

                                 0                                                                                         0
                                     FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019



                                                               Exports             As a % of Net Sales


                                                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        19
                                              R&D
                                              Bajaj Auto’s R&D is its powerhouse for making significant
                                              engineering, styling and riding improvements, and in helping
                                              the Company launch one product after another — be it
                                              motorcycles, three-wheelers or quadricycles. Here are some
                                              of the key initiatives taken by R&D during FY2019.




                                                                     R 1  6 0 N  S
                                                           P U  L SA           I S K
                                                                  H T W I N  D
                                                           W  I T
                                                              This best-selling Pulsar with its perimeter
                                                              frame was upgraded with wider front and
                                                              rear tyres and a disc brake at the rear for
                                                              sharper braking — thus making it even more
                                                              appealing for sports motorcycle riders.




    A R 1 5 0
PULS
 The successful Pulsar 150 cc was
 complemented by creating a variant which
 brings out a classic, new look to the product.
 Its simplicity, clean lines and attractive new
 Neon graphics have been well appreciated
 by customers and dealers alike
                                                      R 1 8 0 F
                                                PULSA
                                              To enhance its appeal, the versatile
                                              Pulsar 180 cc was made more exciting by
                                              sporting the signature half fairing as well
                                              as the projector head lamp of the Pulsar 220.
                                              Added to these were new Neon graphics.




        U K E 1 2 5
K T M D
     H A B S
WIT
The KTM Duke 125 cc was launched primarily
to appeal to young customers who while
wanting to own a KTM bike might have shied
away on account of the purchase cost.
 With the Duke 125, they now have a sporty,
zippy and highly manoeuvrable bike at a
more affordable price point.
         D O M I N A R
           Our top-of-the-line Dominar was given a major upgrade. With a new dual overhead camshaft
           four-valve engine and best-in-class power and torque throughout its RPM range, the new Dominar
           has distinctly superior performance. An all-new double barrel exhaust delivers a dominant idling
           thump with a linear bass-like note across the entire RPM range. Introduction of upside down forks
           and improved rear suspension have further enhanced the already superior ride and handling of the
           bike. A new radial calliper front disc brake system along with dual channel ABS add to its safety.
           The noise, vibration and harshness (NVH) character of the bike has been improved significantly
           through detailed design refinements.

           Other added features like a new forged side stand, aluminium stay for the mirrors, tail lamp with
           light guide and a new tank dome decal have enhanced the premium design theme. A dot-matrix
           display added to the primary speedometer provides the rider with useful information and warning
           messages relating to speed, fuel consumption and the like. The secondary speedometer has been
           updated for gear position indication, adding to the premium feel of the bike.




22   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                             Avenger 160 Street
                                             with Anti-Lock Brake System




                                                                                                         Discover 125
                                                                                                         with Anti-Skid
                                                                                                         Brake System



     I - LO C K
ANT TI-SKID
AND ANSYSTEMS
B R A K E
A major cause of motorcycle
accidents is skidding during sharp
braking. To enhance safety during
braking on our motorcycles, we have
introduced ABS technology on all
models above 125 cc and
CBS/Anti-Skid technology on rest.

In the case of ABS (Anti-lock Braking System),
when a skid condition is detected during braking,
the system regulates hydraulic pressure for braking and prevents
the wheels from locking and skidding. This regulated brake force enables a bike
with ABS to achieve the highest possible deceleration rate without losing control of the vehicle.
All our Pulsars, Dominars and Avengers have been equipped with the ABS system.

With the Bajaj Anti-Skid system, the brake force applied by a rider on the rear brake pedal/lever
is distributed to both the rear and front brakes in a controlled and pre-defined proportion using a
linkage mechanism. Because of weight transfer during braking, the rear wheel reaction reduces thus
diminishing the traction available at rear wheel; and, simultaneously, the front wheel reaction
increases and, with it, raises the traction available at the front wheel. Our Anti-Skid system takes
advantage of this natural phenomenon — and by diverting part of rear brake input force to front,
it not only prevents an early locking of the rear wheel but also increases overall braking efficiency.
Our Platina, Discover, V and CT 100 are now equipped with the Anti-Skid brake system.
                                                            N A 1 0 0
                                                       PLATI KS
                                                       ES AND
                                                          While adding the safety feature of Anti-Skid
                                                          braking, on-road stability of both the Platina
                                                          100 ES and KS has been strengthened
                                                          through improved chassis and swing arm.
                                                          Combined with superior comfort features of
                                                          the current Platina 100, these
                                                          improvements add to the safety, ride and
                                                          handling confidence of the rider.




         1 1 0 E S
P LATINA
 In addition to Anti-Skid brakes and
 improved chassis and swing arm,
 the Platina 110 further enhances ride
 comfort by providing Nitrox canister and
 SOS in the rear suspension. Road grip
 and stability have been improved by
 providing tubeless tyres.




                                            The Platina 125 Max Euro III has a five-speed transmission with



      A 1 2 5                               a 1Down-4Up shift pattern based on the market requirement for



PLATIN RO III
                                            Colombia. The shift feel is optimised for smoothness and ease of use.
                                            The Platina already features longer travel front suspension and rear
                                            suspension than any other commuter motorcycle, resulting in better



MAX EU
                                            absorption of bumps, delivering maximum comfort to the rider and
                                            enabling a smooth ride. It also sports a ‘spring-soft’ seat, rubber
                                            footpads and directional tyres that enhance ride comfort and stability.
                                                                1 0 0 E S
                                                             CT
                                                            The CT 100 ES with Anti-Skid brakes is
                                                            complemented with a 130 mm front drum brake
                                                            which provides for superior braking. The exhaust
                                                            silencer has been redesigned for improved
                                                            ground clearance.




       A F R I CA
CT 125
The CT125 Africa retains all the styling elements of
CT100 ES while simultaneously providing utility
and durability features required in rural African
markets. Utility features provided are platform
type rear load carrier, long footrests for the pillion,
flat seat with ample cushioning and a steel front
fender. A round head lamp adds to desirability in
those markets. The silencer is also revised to have
improved ground clearance




                                               Boxer 100 ES uses a new 102 cc single-cylinder four-stroke engine tuned to



     E R 1 0 0                                 produce 7.6 bhp of power and 8.24 Nm of peak torque, which provides



BOX KS
                                               customers with superior mileage along with the convenience of an electric
                                               start. All existing features like a longer and thicker seat, platform type carrier,



        D
                                               a third foot rest and round head lamp have been carried forward from the



E S A N                                        existing Boxer S model. Moreover, given African road conditions, both the
                                               Boxer 100 ES and KS have been upgraded with their silencers having
                                               improved ground clearance.
                                      O M E S T I C
                            Q U T E D
                            PETROL
                               The first ever quadricycle on Indian roads, the Bajaj QUTE, was launched in
                               India in Q4 of FY2019. It has already been exported to over 30 countries.
                               Designed for intra-city travel applications, QUTE’s compact foot print,
                               best-in-class turning circle and excellent manoeuvrability makes it an ideal
                               solution for last mile transportation. It’s completely enclosed body offers
                               good protection from the elements.

                               QUTE’s 216 cc power train delivers a strong 9.7 kw of power which
                               enables it to easily negotiate gradients and other road traffic conditions
                               with full load. With a fuel efficiency of around 35 km/litre, it is sufficiently
                               economical to own and operate. Its state-of-the-art liquid cooled,
                               closed loop fuel injection coupled with DTSi technology is designed to meet
                               both the current BS IV as well as the more stringent BS VI emission norms.




          O M E S T I C
Q U T E D
CNG
 QUTE CNG, launched in
 FY2019, is a variant for regions
 where this green fuel is
 available. It offers excellent
 fuel efficiency of 43 km/litre.
                                                             A CA RG O
                                                   M A X I M
                                                   P E T R O L
                                                   The Maxima-C Petrol vehicle has been launched for
                                                   export markets. A large and strong load tray on a
                                                   longer wheel base ensures stability in start-stop
                                                   conditions, even on gradients. It features a larger
                                                   capacity fuel tank for more range and greater uptime.
                                                   Its 236 cc engine coupled with a maintenance-free
                                                   constant velocity (CV) shaft and wheel ends ensures
                                                   better driveability as well as transmission efficiency.




          A X W I D E
M A X I M        G
         N D L P
CNG A
Maxima Xwide CNG has been launched to explore
new markets not yet represented by our Maxima
platform. The Maxima Xwide CNG offers twin CNG
cylinders with 60 litre capacity and a spacious
passenger body. Comfortable head-and
shoulder-room ensures relaxed sitting as well as
sufficient luggage room. These features ensure
longer range and more uptime for the vehicle.
As in the Maxima Cargo Petrol, this variant also
has a 236 cc engine coupled with maintenance-
free CV shaft and wheel ends. Newly styled
Scudo extensions give the vehicle looks that are
commensurate with its wider body dimensions.
We also successfully launched the LPG variant.
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              Operations, Productivity and Quality
              TPM
              Bajaj Auto’s ‘back end’ consists of its manufacturing, engineering, development and materials functions.
              It is our endeavour to make TPM as the The Prime Mover towards excellence in our work culture.
              ‘The TPM way’ has been successfully extended to include Bajaj Auto’s vendors and distributor plants
              with an aim to create a work culture of achieving across-the-Board excellence.


              Bajaj Auto’s TPM at manufacturing plants
              Bajaj Auto now has a ‘first-in-the-industry’ status of having all its manufacturing plants certified
              for 'Special Award for TPM Achievement' by Japan Institute for Plant Maintenance (JIPM).
              In FY2019, our commercial vehicles and the Pantnagar plants underwent a detailed two-stage
              assessment for the 'Special Award' by JIPM auditors. The auditors were appreciative of our TPM
              methodology and the results achieved at both these plants. Thus, these plants, too, were conferred
              the 'Special Award for TPM Achievement'.

              Incidentally, during FY2020, our Chakan plant will be challenging the 'Advance Special TPM Award',
              which is a step away from being recognised as 'World Class' by JIPM.

              Having achieved the level of 'Special Award for TPM' by JIPM for all four plants, our TPM has now
              moved to the next level with a unique three-pronged approach, which involves:

              a) ‘TPM Deepening’, to sustain and further improve on current activities.
              b) ‘TPM Widening’, to expand scope of TPM pillar activities across the supply chain including
                 Tier I and II suppliers, dealers and distributors.
              c) ‘TPM Evolving', to be ready to face the business challenges of the future.

              To operationalise these, we have defined management themes spanning all key elements of the value
              chain. Functions like R&D, manufacturing, engineering, spares, service and materials have redefined
              their KPIs and are working towards meeting these to achieve the next level of operational parameters
              and business goals.

              Under ‘TPM Widening’, Manufacturing TPM has now been extended to our seven distributors plants in
              the export market. A detailed 17-step methodology has been developed for executing this extension.


              Our vendor TPM activities
              Bajaj Auto’s vendor TPM activity is unique to the Indian industry. At present:
              l  163 Tier I vendor groups from our supply chain are practicing TPM.
              l  Of these, 119 have been conferred with the ‘BAL TPM Award’ and 60 have secured
                 ‘BAL TPM Excellence Award’.
              l  Going further, 21 of the 60 ‘BAL TPM Excellence’ awardees have successfully challenged next level
                 of award, i.e. the ‘JIPM award for Excellence in TPM’.
              l  In addition, BAL’s TPM practicing Tier I vendors have extended TPM practices down the supply chain
                 to their vendors. Thus, the TPM way is now being practiced by 267 Tier II vendors. Of these, 120 have
                 been certified as TPM awardees by their respective Tier I vendors.




28   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                Management Discussion and Analysis




Under the Safety, Health and Environment pillar of BAL’s TPM and in alignment with 'Green Purchase
Policy', 135 Tier I vendors out of 163 practicing TPM have been certified for ISO 14001 and
OHSAS 18001 as on 31 March 2019.


Our TPM in After-Sales Service
In FY2018, we took a first-in-the-industry initiative of improving our service network by deploying TPM
at dealerships. This was implemented as a pilot project across 52 dealers. A structured 17-step
methodology was defined under three broad stages — preparation, practicing and recognition. TPM at
dealerships is primarily aimed at improving dealer workshop profitability and enhancing customer
satisfaction through improvements in service quality. In FY2019, this initiative was expanded to
240 dealerships throughout India.

In addition, another breakthrough initiative was also undertaken during FY2019. This was initiating the
‘Kaizen movement’ at dealerships. A Kaizen sharing platform called ‘www.bajajkaizen.com’ was created
and made available to all domestic dealers to share their Kaizens and best practices. In a span of eight
months, this platform has helped in implementing over 3,000 Kaizens across different dealerships.


Our TPM activity at overseas distributor plants
Manufacturing TPM activities were initiated in our seven distributors plants by nominating and sending
TPM experts from Bajaj Auto. Four distributor plants — in Colombia, Argentina, Egypt and Kenya — have
achieved good results, with their manpower productivity, production efficiency and right first-time
quality improving between 8% and 17%.


Women Employment
Half a decade earlier, we had very few women in our plants and in the engineering workforce.
We decided that it was time for a change. In the last couple of years, we have had ‘Women Only’
assembly lines at the Chakan and Pantnagar plants. Our women employee strength has more than
tripled — from 148 in FY2014 to 471 in FY2019. Of them, 358 women are working in manufacturing
plants and in engineering. We have begun, but more needs to be done.


Capacity and Productivity Improvements
Table 4 gives plant-wise capacities across Bajaj Auto’s facilities.

Table 4: Plant-wise Capacities (in units per annum) and Product Range

Plant                              As on 31 March 2019 Product range



Waluj                Motorcycles               2,400,000 Boxer, CT, Platina, Discover, Pulsar, V
                     Commercial Vehicle         930,000 Passenger Carrier, Good Carrier, Quadricycle
Waluj Subtotal                                3,330,000
Chakan               Motorcycles               1,200,000 Pulsar, Avenger, KTM, Dominar
Pantnagar            Motorcycles               1,800,000 CT, Platina, Discover, V, Pulsar
Grand Total                                   6,330,000




    March 2019 saw highest ever monthly production of Pulsars at 121,720. For five months of
    FY2019, our Pulsar production exceeded 100,000 per month, with the annual average coming
    to an all time high of 91,146 units per month.


As on 31 March 2019, BAL’s employee strength stood at 10,258.




                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19    29
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              Financials
              Table 5 gives the summarised standalone Profit and Loss Statement of Bajaj Auto.

              Table 5: Summarised Standalone Profit and Loss Statement
                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
              Particulars                                                                       FY2019         FY2018



              Operations
              Sales                                                                              29,567         25,098
              Less: Excise duty                                                                       –             398
              Net sales                                                                          29,567        24,700
              Other operating income                                                                973             724
              Total operating income                                                             30,540        25,424


              Cost of materials consumed, net of expenditures capitalised                        21,794         17,386
                                                                                                  71.4%          68.4%
              Stores and tools                                                                      141             118
                                                                                                   0.5%           0.5%
              Employee cost                                                                       1,253           1,067
                                                                                                   4.1%           4.2%
              Factory, administrative and other expenses                                            683             655
                                                                                                   2.2%           2.6%
              Sales and after sales expenses                                                      1,282           1,053
                                                                                                   4.2%           4.1%
              Total expenditure                                                                  25,153        20,279
              Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)               5,387          5,145
              EBITDA %                                                                           17.6%          20.2%
              Interest                                                                                4                1
              Depreciation and amortisation                                                         266             315
              Operating profit                                                                    5,117          4,829
                                                                                                 16.8%          19.0%
              CSR spends and donations                                                              112             100
              Operating profit less CSR spends and donations                                      5,005          4,729
              Non-operating income                                                                1,359           1,088
              Less: Non-operating expense                                                             3                2
              Non-operating income, net                                                           1,356          1,086
              Profit before tax and exceptional item                                              6,361          5,815
              Exceptional item (Income)/Expense                                                    (342)             32
              Profit before tax                                                                   6,703          5,783
              Tax expense                                                                         2,028           1,715
              Profit after tax                                                                    4,675          4,068
              Surplus cash and cash equivalents as on 31 March                                   16,368         15,542


              Bajaj Auto’s return on operating capital employed stood at 198%. Surplus cash and cash equivalents as
              at 31 March 2019 stood at H 16,368 crore compared to H 15,542 crore as at 31 March 2018 — an
              increase of 5.3%. Our surplus funds are invested in (i) fixed income securities rated A1+ and equivalent
              for short-term investments, (ii) AA+ and above rated securities for long-term investments, and
              (iii) fixed deposits with banks.


30   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                               Management Discussion and Analysis




As is now required for listed companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI),
Table 6 gives the key ratios.

Table 6: Key Financial Ratios, Standalone

Particulars                     FY2019          FY2018 Remarks



Debtors Turnover Ratio             11.55          16.56 To ensure better stock availability amongst
                                                        Dealers and other channel partners, Company has
                                                        extended credit resulting in an increase in amount
                                                        of trade receivables.
Inventory Turnover Ratio           22.70          23.45
Current Ratio                       1.45           2.25 Investments maturing within next 1 year form part
                                                        of Current Assets. Value of such investments as on
                                                        31 March 2019 was H 1,576 crore as against
                                                        H 5,765 crore on 31 March 2018.
Operating Profit Margin           16.8%           19.0%
Net Profit Margin                 14.7%           15.3%
Return on Net Worth               21.5%           21.3% Return is higher due to growth in profits




Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV)
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Over the years, through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of €198.1 million (H 1,219 crore),
and holds approximately 48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM), the fastest growing motorcycle brand
in the world.

Calendar year 2018 has been another record year for KTM, with highest sales in units and highest
turnover in the history of the company. It sold 211,931 motorcycles, representing a growth of 10.8%.
It achieved a turnover of €1.45 billion, or a growth of 9.2% over the previous year. Profit after tax
was at €89.8 million (H 729 crore), a growth of 13.7%. The proportionate profit to Bajaj Auto Ltd.
was €43.05 million (H 350 crore), which shows up in the consolidated results.

In its Annual General Meeting for the calendar year 2018, held on 24 April 2019, KTM AG declared
a dividend of €2.50 per share, versus €2.25 per share for 2017. Thus, BAIH BV has received
€13.01 million (H 104 crore) as its share of dividend.

During the year, Bajaj Auto manufactured 99,862 units of KTM Duke at its Chakan plant.
Of these, 50,705 units were sold through the Pro-Biking network, and 50,408 were exported.




                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19    31
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              Consolidation of accounts and
              segment reporting
              Table 7: Segment Revenue and Segment Results
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)

              Particulars                                                                        FY2019         FY2018



              Segment Revenue
              Automotive                                                                          30,540         25,823
              Investment and others                                                                1,265             953
              Total                                                                               31,805         26,776


              Segment Results
              Profit/(Loss) from each segment before tax
              Automotive                                                                           5,697           4,984
              Investment and others                                                                1,263             951
              Total                                                                                6,960          5,935
              Less: Interest                                                                           4                2
              Profit before tax                                                                    6,956          5,933
              Profit after tax                                                                     4,928          4,219



              Outlook
              FY2019 has been a good year for Bajaj Auto — for the domestic market and exports, both for
              motorcycles and commercial vehicles. Although a Management Discussion and Analysis is no place for
              making forward-looking statements, we expect to continue doing well in FY2020.

              For the industry as a whole, we believe that the joker in the pack will be the tough Bharat Stage VI,
              or BS VI, emission norms that will come into play from 1 April 2020. According to the Supreme Court
              of India, from that date onwards, no motor vehicle following the currently existing BS IV norms will be
              allowed to be sold across the country.

              As far as Bajaj Auto is concerned, each of our motorcycles, three-wheelers and quadricycles will be
              fully BS VI compliant not just on 1 April 2020 but some months earlier. However, it is difficult to
              anticipate the state of BS VI readiness of our competitors. If some, or most, of them have a large
              stock of unsold BS IV vehicles in the second half of FY2020, they will perforce have to dump these in the
              market before the advent of 1 April 2020. That could trigger an unwarranted price war, to the detriment
              of all. We cannot claim that such a scenario will definitely play out; equally we cannot ignore a distinct
              risk overhang on that account.

              Besides this, we expect the domestic market to get more competitive across the various segments.
              The days when a manufacturer could claim quasi-monopolistic presence in one or more segment is
              rapidly coming to an end. Given the operational nimbleness that we have demonstrated over the last
              couple of years, and armed with a surplus of over H 16,000 crore, we at Bajaj Auto have the strength
              to deal with such competition. A large part of our strength lies in our success in exports, where the
              markets are not only diverse but also less prone to acute competitive pressures as the domestic
              market. Our strength also lies in the primacy that we have in the three-wheelers and commercial
              vehicles segment. Therefore, so long as we have new and exciting models on offer, we can meet the
              competition and succeed.

              The near-term outlook, therefore, should be healthy for Bajaj Auto. So long as there are not too many
              major market disruptions on account of BS VI. Time will tell which way things move.




32   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Management Discussion and Analysis




     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19      33
     Management Discussion and Analysis




              Cautionary Statement
              Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s objectives,
              projections, estimates and expectations may be ‘forward looking’ within the meaning of applicable
              laws and regulations. Actual results may differ from those expressed or implied. Important factors
              that could make a difference to the Company’s operations include global economy, political stability,
              stock performance on stock markets, changes in government regulations, tax regimes,
              economic developments and other incidental factors. Except as required by law, the Company
              does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or
              circumstances. Investors are advised to exercise due care and caution while interpreting
              these statements.




34   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
In accordance with the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and amendments thereto (hereinafter referred to as ‘SEBI Listing Regulations’),
given below are the corporate governance policies and practices of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’
or ‘BAL’) for the year 2018-19.

This Report, therefore, states compliance as per requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI
Listing Regulations, as applicable to the Company. As will be seen, the Company’s corporate
governance practices and disclosures have gone well beyond complying with the statutory and
regulatory requirements stipulated in the applicable laws, including SEBI Listing Regulations.


Kotak Committee on Corporate Governance
With the aim of improving standards of Corporate Governance of listed companies in India, SEBI
had formed a Committee on corporate governance on 2 June 2017 under the Chairmanship of
Shri Uday Kotak. Based on the report of the Kotak Committee on Corporate Governance, the Securities
and Exchange Board of India on 9 May 2018 amended the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, some of which became applicable from 1 October 2018 and many
from 1 April 2019 respectively. Your Company is in compliance with these provisions.

Philosophy
The commitment of the Bajaj Group to the highest standards of good corporate governance practices
predates SEBI and the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Ethical dealings, transparency,
fairness, disclosure and accountability are the main thrust of the working of the Bajaj Group.
Bajaj Auto Ltd. maintains the same tradition and commitment.

Board of Directors
In keeping with the commitment of the Management to the principle of integrity and transparency in
business operations for good corporate governance, the Company’s policy is to have an appropriate
blend of executive and independent directors to maintain the independence of the Board and to
separate the Board functions of governance and management.


Composition
As per to regulation 17(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, where the Chairman is executive
or a promoter, at least one half of the Board of the Company should consist of independent directors.
As Table 1 shows, this provision is met at BAL.

As on 31 March 2019, the Board of the Company consisted of sixteen directors, of whom four were
executive (including one Managing Director), eight were non-executive independent (including one
woman independent director) and four were non-executive and non-independent. The Board has no
institutional nominee director. The Company has an Executive Chairman.

More particulars about the directors are mentioned in the Board’s Report.


Number of meetings of the Board
During the year 2018-19, the Board met eight times, viz. 18 May 2018, 20 July 2018,
18 September 2018, 19 September 2018, 24 October 2018, 30 January 2019, 13 March 2019 and
14 March 2019. The gap between any two meetings has been less than one hundred and twenty days.




                                                                                   12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19   35
     Corporate Governance




              Attendance record of directors
              Table 1: Composition of the Board and attendance record of directors for 2018-19
                                                                                                                    No. of
                                                                                                                    Board       Whether
                                                                               Relationship with                   Meetings     attended
              Name of director            Category                             other directors                     attended     last AGM



              Rahul Bajaj                 Chairman, executive                  Father of Rajiv Bajaj and
                                                                               Sanjiv Bajaj, father-in-law
                                                                               of Manish Kejriwal                      7/8             No
              Madhur Bajaj                Vice Chairman, non-executive Brother of Shekhar Bajaj
                                                                       and Niraj Bajaj                                 8/8             Yes
              Rajiv Bajaj                 Managing Director                    Son of Rahul Bajaj, brother
                                          and CEO, executive                   of Sanjiv Bajaj, brother-in-
                                                                               law of Manish Kejriwal                  8/8             Yes
              Sanjiv Bajaj                Non-executive                        Son of Rahul Bajaj, brother
                                                                               of Rajiv Bajaj, brother-in-
                                                                               law of Manish Kejriwal                  8/8             Yes
              D S Mehta                   Non-executive, independent           –                                       4/8             Yes
              Shekhar Bajaj               Non-executive                        Brother of Madhur Bajaj and
                                                                               Niraj Bajaj                             6/8             Yes
              D J Balaji Rao              Non-executive, independent           –                                       8/8             Yes
              Nanoo Pamnani               Non-executive, independent           –                                       8/8             Yes
              Manish Kejriwal*            Non-executive                        Son-in-law of Rahul Bajaj,
                                                                               brother-in-law of Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                               and Sanjiv Bajaj                        4/5             Yes
              P Murari                    Non-executive, independent           –                                       4/8             Yes
              Niraj Bajaj                 Non-executive                        Brother of Madhur Bajaj and
                                                                               Shekhar Bajaj                           8/8             Yes
              Dr. Gita Piramal            Non-executive, independent           –                                       8/8             Yes
              Pradeep Shrivastava         Executive Director                   –                                       8/8             Yes
              Dr. Naushad Forbes          Non-executive, independent           –                                       7/8             Yes
              Dr. Omkar Goswami           Non-executive, independent           –                                       7/8             Yes
              Anami N. Roy                Non-executive, independent           –                                       8/8             Yes
              Rakesh Sharma**             Executive Director                   -                                       3/3             NA
              * Manish Kejriwal resigned as non-executive, non-independent director of the Company with effect from 31 December 2018
                after office hours.
              ** Rakesh Sharma was appointed as an additional director and as a whole-time director with the designation of
                 Executive Director w.e.f. 1 January 2019.

              Opinion of the Board
              The Board hereby confirms that, in its opinion, the independent directors on the Board fulfil the
              conditions specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations and Companies Act, 2013 and are independent of
              the management.




36   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                Corporate Governance




Non-executive directors’ compensation
The shareholders of the Company vide special resolution passed at the annual general meeting of the
Company held on 27 July 2016 have, by way of an enabling provision, approved the payment of
commission upto a sum not exceeding one percent of the net profits of the Company, calculated in
accordance with the provisions of section 197 and 198 of the Companies Act, 2013, to the non-executive
directors, in the manner as may be decided by the Board of Directors from time to time during the five
year term upto 31 March 2021.

In terms of the said approvals, non-executive directors of the Company are being paid, in addition to the
sitting fee of H 100,000 per meeting for every meeting of the Board and its Committees, commission at
the rate of H 150,000 per meeting of the Board and its Committees attended by them as member,
subject to the overall ceiling of one percent of the net profits. With effect from 1 April 2019,
the Commission payable has been enhanced to H 250,000 per meeting by the Board at its meeting
held on 13 March 2019.

In consideration of the extra services rendered by Nanoo Pamnani, at the request of the Management
during the year 2018-19, Nanoo Pamnani will be paid H 30 lakh (as against H 20 lakh for the
year 2017-18) as additional commission for the year 2018-19, pursuant to the aforesaid approvals.

The Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) for the
benefit of the permanent employees and/or Directors of the Company and/or its holding (if any, in future)
and subsidiary Company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any employee who is a promoter or
belongs to the promoter group.

Information supplied to the Board
In advance of each meeting, the Board is presented with relevant information on various matters
related to the working of the Company, especially those that require deliberation at the highest level.
Presentations are also made to the Board by different functional heads on important matters from time
to time. Directors have separate and independent access to the officers of the Company. In addition to
items required to be placed before the Board for its noting and/or approval, information is provided on
various significant items.

In terms of quality and importance, the information supplied by the Management to the Board of the
Company is far ahead of the list mandated under regulation 17(7) read with Part A of Schedule II to the
SEBI Listing Regulations. As stated elsewhere, the independent directors of the Company at their
meeting held on 14 March 2019 expressed satisfaction on the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of
information between the Company Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board to
effectively and reasonably perform their duties.

With a view to leveraging technology and moving towards paperless systems for the preservation of
environment, the Company has adopted a web-based application for transmitting Board/Committee
papers. The Directors of the Company receive the agenda in electronic form through this secured
application. The application meets the high standards of security and integrity required for storage and
transmission of Board/Committee agenda in electronic form.


Orderly succession to Board and Senior Management
The Board of the Company satisfied itself that plans are in place for orderly succession for
appointments to the Board and to Senior Management.




                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19       37
     Corporate Governance




              Directorships and memberships of Board Committees
              Details of directorships and memberships in the various committees as held by the directors of the
              Company are given in Table 2.

              Table 2: Number of directorships/committee positions of directors
              as on 31 March 2019
                                                                                                              Committee positions in listed
                                                                                                               and unlisted public limited
                                                                   Directorships                                       companies
                                                                                                                    As
                                                In equity           In unlisted             In private           Member
                                                  listed           public limited             limited         (including as             As
              Name of director                 companies            companies              companies            Chairman)            Chairman


              Rahul Bajaj                            4                     2                     7                     -                    -
              Madhur Bajaj                           6                      -                    3                     -                    -
              Rajiv Bajaj                            4                      -                    2                     -                    -
              Sanjiv Bajaj                           5                     5                     7                    7                     -
              D S Mehta                              3                     1                     2                    4                    1
              Shekhar Bajaj                          3                     4                     4                    1                     -
              D J Balaji Rao                         6                      -                    -                    7                    3
              Nanoo Pamnani                          4                     3                     -                   10                    3
              P Murari                               5                     -                     1                    4                    2
              Niraj Bajaj                            3                     4                    10                    1                    1
              Dr. Gita Piramal                       4                     -                     2                    6                    1
              Pradeep Shrivastava                    1                     -                     -                    -                    -
              Dr. Naushad Forbes                     4                     -                     8                    3                    -
              Dr. Omkar Goswami                      7                     1                     1                    7                    -
              Anami N. Roy                           3                     1                     3                    1                    -
              Rakesh Sharma                          1                     -                     -                    -                    -
              Notes:
              None of the directors holds office as a director, including as alternate director, in more than twenty companies at the same time.
              None of them has directorships in more than ten public companies. For reckoning the limit of public companies, directorships of
              private companies that are either holding or subsidiary company of a public company are included and directorships in dormant
              companies are excluded.
              As per declarations received, none of the directors serves as an independent director in more than seven equity listed companies.
              Further, the Managing Director in the Company does not serve as an independent director in more than three equity listed companies
              and in fact not even in a single entity.
              None of the directors was a member in more than ten committees, nor a chairman in more than five committees across all
              companies in which he was a director.
              For the purpose of considering the limit of the committees on which a director can serve, all public limited companies,
              whether listed or not, have been included and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and
              companies under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 have been excluded. Only audit committee and stakeholders' relationship
              committee are considered for the purpose of reckoning committee positions.




38   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
       Corporate Governance




12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19    39
     Corporate Governance




              Directorships in equity listed Companies
              Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
              directorships as on 31 March 2019

              Name of director   Name of listed entities               Category


                                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                    Chairman, executive
                                                                       Chairman, non-executive
                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                 (upto 16 May 2019)
              Rahul Bajaj
                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                 Chairman, non-executive
                                                                       Chairman, non-executive
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.   (upto 17 May 2019)


                                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                    Vice-Chairman, non-executive
                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                 Non-executive
                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                 Non-executive
              Madhur Bajaj       d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.   Non-executive
                                 e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.             Non-executive
                                                                       Chairman, non-executive
                                 f)   Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.        and nominee


                                                                       Managing Director and
                                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                    CEO, executive
              Rajiv Bajaj        b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                 Non-executive
                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                 Non-executive
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.   Non-executive


                                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                    Non-executive
                                 b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                 Vice-Chairman, non-executive
                                                                       Managing Director and CEO,
              Sanjiv Bajaj       c) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                 executive
                                                                       Managing Director and CEO,
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.   executive
                                 e) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.          Non-executive, nominee


                                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                    Non-executive, independent
              D S Mehta          b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                 Non-executive, independent
                                 c) Mukand Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent


                                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                    Non-executive
                                                                       Chairman and Managing Director,
              Shekhar Bajaj
                                 b) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.             executive
                                 c) Hercules Hoists Ltd.               Chairman, non-executive


                                 a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                    Non-executive, independent
                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                 Non-executive, independent
                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                 Non-executive, independent
              D J Balaji Rao
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.   Non-executive, independent
                                 e) Ashok Leyland Ltd.                 Non-executive, independent
                                 f)   CMI FPE Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent




40   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                       Corporate Governance




Directorships in equity listed Companies
Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
directorships as on 31 March 2019 (Contd.)

Name of director      Name of listed entities                     Category


                      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent
                                                                  Vice-Chairman,
                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       non-executive, independent
Nanoo Pamnani
                                                                  Vice-Chairman,
                      c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       non-executive, independent
                      d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent


                      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent
P Murari              c) Fortis Malar Hospitals Ltd.              Non-executive, independent
                      d) Aban Offshore Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent
                      e) Xpro India Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent


                      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive
                                                                  Chairman and Managing Director,
Niraj Bajaj
                      b) Mukand Ltd.                              executive
                      c) Mukand Engineers Ltd.                    Non-executive


                      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent
Dr. Gita Piramal
                      c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent
                      d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent


Pradeep Shrivastava   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Executive


                      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent
Dr. Naushad Forbes
                      c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent
                      d) Zodiac Clothing Company Ltd.             Non-executive, independent


                      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent
                      c) Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd.            Non-executive, independent
Dr. Omkar Goswami     d) Ambuja Cements Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent
                      e) Godrej Consumer Products Ltd.            Non-executive, independent
                      f)   Hindustan Construction Company Ltd.    Non-executive, independent
                      g) CG Power and Industrial Solutions Ltd.   Non-executive


                      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent
Anami N. Roy          b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent
                      c) Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd.     Non-executive, independent


Rakesh Sharma         a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Executive




                                                                              12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19      41
     Corporate Governance




              Certificate from Practising Company Secretary
              The Company has received a certificate from Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company Secretary to
              the effect that none of the directors on the Board of the Company has been debarred or disqualified
              from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or
              any other statutory authority. The same forms part of this report.


              Review of legal compliance reports
              The Board periodically reviews compliance reports with respect to the various laws applicable to the
              Company, as prepared and placed before it by the Management.


              Code of conduct
              Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, requires listed companies to lay down a code of
              conduct for its directors and senior management, incorporating duties of directors as laid down in the
              Companies Act, 2013.

              The Board at its meeting held on 15 September 2014 adopted a revised Code of Conduct for all
              Directors and Senior Management of the Company and the same has been placed on the Company’s
              website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

              All Directors and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code for 2018-19.
              A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director and CEO is given in this Annual Report.


              Maximum tenure of independent directors
              The maximum tenure of independent directors is in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and
              regulation 25(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.


              Formal letter of appointment to independent directors
              The Company issues a formal letter of appointment to independent directors in the manner as
              provided in the Companies Act, 2013. As per regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the terms
              and conditions of appointment of independent directors are placed on the Company’s website
              www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous


              Performance evaluation
              In terms of Regulation 19(4) read with section A (2) of Part D of Schedule II to the SEBI Listing
              Regulations, the Company has framed a policy stipulating the criteria for evaluation of directors and the
              Board. In light of SEBI’s Guidance Note dated 5 January 2017 on Board Evaluation,
              the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Board of Directors at their meeting held on
              15 March 2017 revised the Policy containing criteria for performance evaluation.

              In line with the amendments to section 178(2) of the Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors of the
              Company at its meeting held on 13 March 2018 approved the evaluation of the performance of Board,
              its committees, the chairperson and individual directors to be carried out by the Board only and not to
              be duplicated by the NRC, with the NRC only reviewing its implementation and compliance.

              Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has
              carried out an annual performance evaluation of its own performance, and that of its Committees,
              Chairperson and individual directors.

              The performance evaluation process followed by the Company for the year 2018-19 was as under:

              l   The performance evaluation criteria for board, committees of the board, chairperson and directors
                  were approved by the board at its meeting held on 15 March 2017.




42   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                               Corporate Governance




l   Based on the said criteria, rating sheets were filled by each of the directors towards the end of the
    year with regard to evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees, chairperson and
    directors (except for the director being evaluated) for the year under review.

l   A consolidated summary of the ratings given by each of the director was then prepared,
    based on which a report of performance evaluation was prepared by the Chairman in respect of the
    performance of the board, its committees, chairperson and directors during the year under review.

l   The report of performance evaluation so arrived at was then noted and discussed by the Board at its
    meeting held on 13 March 2019, while the Nomination and Remuneration Committee at its meeting
    held on 13 March 2019 reviewed the implementation and compliance of the Board evaluation
    process followed by the Company.

l   Under law, the Board shall determine, inter alia, whether to continue the term of appointment of the
    independent director, based on the report of performance evaluation.

l   The term of appointment of Nanoo Pamnani and D J Balaji Rao as independent directors ended
    on 31 March 2019. Based on the report of the performance evaluation and as recommended by
    the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, their re-appointments for a second term of five
    years were considered and approved by the Board, subject to approval of shareholders at the
    general meeting.

Information on the evaluation of Board, non-independent directors and chairperson of the Company
as carried out by the independent directors at their meeting held in March 2019 has been furnished in
a separate para elsewhere in this Report.


Remuneration Policy
The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, approved increasing the commission
payable to the directors with effect from 1 April 2019 and the Board has also approved Employee Stock
Options scheme for the employees of the Company, its subsidiary(ies) and holding company (if any in
future). Accordingly, the Board also amended the Remuneration Policy.

The policy, inter-alia, provides (a) the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and
independence of directors (b) a policy on remuneration for directors, key managerial personnel and
other employees and (c) Employee Stock Option. The Policy is directed towards a compensation
philosophy and structure that will reward and retain talent and provides for a balance between fixed
and incentive pay reflecting short and long-term performance objectives appropriate to the working of
the Company and its goals.

The detailed Remuneration Policy is placed on the Company's website
www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


Board Diversity Policy
In compliance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board through its Nomination and
Remuneration Committee has devised a Policy on Board Diversity. The objective of the Policy is to
ensure that the Board comprises an adequate number of members with diverse experience and skills,
such that it best serves the governance and strategic needs of the Company. The Board composition as
at present broadly meets with the above objective.


Familiarisation programmes
With a view to familiarising the independent directors with the Company’s operations, as required
under regulation 25(7) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has held various familiarisation
programmes for the independent directors throughout the year on an ongoing and continuous basis.

The details of familiarisation programmes are placed on the Company's website
www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies




                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19       43
     Corporate Governance




              Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil mechanism
              Pursuant to section 177(9) of Companies Act, 2013, Regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and
              SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, the Board at its meeting held on
              13 March 2019 amended the existing Whistle Blower Policy.

              The Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil mechanism provides a mechanism for the director/employee to report
              without fear of victimisation, any unethical behaviour, suspected or actual fraud, violation of the Code of
              Conduct etc. violations and now instances of leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information, which are
              detrimental to the organisation’s interest. The mechanism protects whistle blower from any kind of
              discrimination, harassment, victimisation or any other unfair employment practice. The Company
              affirms that no employee has been denied access to the Audit Committee.

              The directors in all cases and employees in appropriate or exceptional cases will have direct access to
              the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The said Policy is placed on the Company’s website
              www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


              Dividend Distribution Policy
              As mandated under regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, for the top 500 companies as on
              31 March 2016 by market capitalisation, the Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on
              28 October 2016 adopted a Dividend Distribution Policy for the Company. The Policy sets out the
              parameters and circumstances that will be taken into account by the Board in determining the
              distribution of dividend to its shareholders.

              As a green initiative, the Dividend Distribution Policy is placed on the Company's website
              www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

              A physical copy of the Policy will be made available to any shareholder on request.


              Subsidiary companies
              The Company has two overseas subsidiaries, viz. PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia and Bajaj Auto International
              Holdings BV, Netherlands, which however, are not ‘material subsidiaries’ as defined under
              regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.

              The revised Policy on ‘material subsidiaries’ in terms of Regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing
              Regulations, as approved by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019 is placed on the
              Company's website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

              Provisions to the extent applicable as required under Regulation 24 of the SEBI Listing
              Regulations, with reference to subsidiary companies were duly complied with.

              During the year under review, the Audit Committee reviewed the financial statements (in particular,
              the investments made) of its unlisted subsidiary companies, to the extent applicable. Minutes of the
              Board meetings of the subsidiary companies as well as a statement of significant transactions and
              arrangements entered into by the subsidiaries, as applicable, were regularly placed before the
              Board of the Company.


              Related party transactions
              All related party transactions (RPTs) which were entered into by the Company during the year under
              review, were on arms’ length basis and in the ordinary course of business and did not attract provisions
              of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 and were also not material RPTs as per regulation 23 of the
              SEBI Listing Regulations.

              During the year 2018-19, as required under section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and regulation 23
              of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all RPTs were placed before the Audit Committee for approval.




44   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                               Corporate Governance




A statement showing the disclosure of transactions with related parties as required under Ind AS 24 is
set out separately in this Annual Report.

There were no material transactions entered into with related parties, during the year under review,
which may have had any potential conflict with the interests of the Company.

The revised Policy on materiality of RPTs stipulating the threshold limits and also on dealing with RPTs
which was approved by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, pursuant to SEBI Listing
Regulations has been placed on the Company's website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


Disclosures
Suitable disclosures have been made in the financial statements, together with the Management’s
explanation in the event of any treatment being different from that prescribed in the Ind AS.


Core Skill/Expertise/Competencies
As stipulated under Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, core skills/expertise/competencies,
as required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively and those actually
available with the Board have been identified by the Board of Directors.

Chart/Matrix of such core skills/expertise/competencies is given in the Table 4 below:

Table 4: List of Core Skills/Expertise/Competencies identified
by the Board of Directors

   Sr. No.      Core Skills/Expertise/Competencies


       1        Management and Strategy
       2        Global Business Leadership
       3        Operations and Engineering
       4        Commercial, Purchase and Supply Chain
       5        Manufacturing, Automobile Engineering and Project Management
       6        Information Technology, Systems and Computers
       7        Human Resources and Industrial Relations
       8        Sales, Marketing and International Business
       9        Research and Development
      10        Infrastructure and Real Estate
      11        Finance and Taxation
      12        Banking, Investment and Treasury and Forex Management
      13        Insurance, Mutual Fund and Financial Services
      14        Audit and Risk Management
      15        Law
      16        Corporate Governance and Ethics
      17        Economics and Statistics
      18        Regulatory, Government and Security matters
      19        Academics, Education, Authorship
      20        CSR, Sustainability and NGO matters



Audit Committee
Pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted an
Audit Committee. The Board reviews the working of the Committee from time to time to bring about
greater effectiveness in order to comply with the various requirements under the Companies Act, 2013
and the SEBI Listing Regulations.


                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19       45
     Corporate Governance




              In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations, all the
              members are independent, non–executive directors and are financially literate and have accounting or
              related financial management expertise.

              During 2018-19, in line with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended,
              the terms of reference of the Committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on
              13 March 2019. The revised terms of reference are in accordance with the Companies Act,
              2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations. The detailed terms of reference of audit committee have
              been placed on the Company's website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


              Meetings and attendance
              During 2018-19, the Audit Committee met four times viz. on 18 May 2018, 20 July 2018,
              24 October 2018 and 30 January 2019. The meetings were scheduled well in advance and
              not more than one hundred and twenty days elapsed between any two meetings.

              In addition to the members of the Audit Committee, these meetings were attended by the heads of
              finance, internal audit functions and the statutory auditor of the Company and those executives who
              were considered necessary for providing inputs to the Committee.

              The Company Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Audit Committee.

              Table 5: Composition of Audit Committee and attendance record of members
              for 2018-19


              Name of director               Category                                     No. of meetings attended



              Nanoo Pamnani                  Chairman, Non-executive, independent                      4/4
              D J Balaji Rao                 Non-executive, independent                                4/4
              Dr. Gita Piramal               Non-executive, independent                                4/4
              Dr. Naushad Forbes             Non-executive, independent                                4/4

              Pursuant to the terms of reference, the Audit Committee, inter alia, discussed and deliberated on the
              financial results, appointment/re-appointment of Statutory Auditors, review of internal audit functions,
              review and approval of related party transactions including granting of omnibus approval for the
              proposed transactions, review of investment related reports of the Company, etc.

              Nanoo Pamnani, current Chairman of the Audit Committee, was present at the annual general meeting
              of the Company held on 20 July 2018, to answer shareholders’ queries.

              Nomination and Remuneration Committee
              Pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted
              a Nomination and Remuneration Committee.

              During 2018-19, in line with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, the terms of
              reference of the Committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019.
              The Committee also acts as a Compensation Committee for implementation of the Bajaj Auto Employee
              Stock Option Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019).

              The detailed terms of reference of Nomination and Remuneration committee have been placed on the
              Company's website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

              During the year under review, the Committee met four times, i.e. on 20 July 2018, 24 October 2018,
              30 January 2019 and 13 March 2019.




46   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
     Corporate Governance




              Table 6: Composition of Nomination and Remuneration Committee and attendance
              record of members for 2018-19

              Name of director              Category                                   No. of meetings attended



              D J Balaji Rao                Chairman, non-executive, independent                   4/4
              Rahul Bajaj                   Chairman, executive                                    3/4
              Dr. Naushad Forbes            Non-executive, independent                             4/4
              Dr. Gita Piramal              Non-executive, independent                             4/4

              The Company Secretary acted as the Secretary to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.

              As provided under the terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee,
              the members, inter alia, deliberated on the following:

              i)    Noting and review of remuneration payable to senior management personnel one
                    level below the Board.
              ii) Approval of revision in remuneration payable to Executive Director effective from
                    1 April 2018.
              iii) Approval of revision in the remuneration payable to Managing Director & CEO effective from
                    1 April 2018.
              iv) Noting of resignation of Manish Kejriwal as non-executive director with effect from
                    31 December 2018 after office hours.
              v) Appointment of Rakesh Sharma as an additional director and as a whole-time director with the
                    designation of Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2019.
              vi) Approval of fresh Employee Stock Option Scheme and connected matters.
              vii) Noting of non-continuation of P Murari and D S Mehta as independent directors for a second
                    term of five years.
              viii) Appointment of Pradip Shah and Smt. Lila Poonawalla as independent directors with effect from
                    1 April 2019.
              ix) Re-appointment of Nanoo Pamnani and D J Balaji Rao as independent directors for a second term of
                    five consecutive years.
              x) Appointment of Soumen Ray as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) of
                    the Company in place of outgoing CFO Kevin D’sa.
              xi) Review of the implementation and compliance of effective evaluation of performance of Board, its
                    committees, chairperson and individual directors for the year 2018-19.
              xii) Revision in the commission payable to Non-executive Directors with effect from 1 April 2019.
              xiii) Recommendation of payment of additional commission to Nanoo Pamnani.


              Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
              (“BAL-ESOS 2019”)
              The BAL-ESOS 2019 has been formulated by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the
              Board with an aim to provide competitive remuneration opportunities to employees of the Company,
              including through annual incentive plans and long-term incentive plans, was approved by the Board at
              its meeting held on 30 January 2019, and by the Members of the Company vide Special Resolution
              through Postal Ballot on 13 March 2019, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and
              Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, as amended,
              (“SEBI SBEB Regulations”).

              The details on the above Employee Stock Option Scheme(s) as required to be disclosed under the
              SEBI (SBEB) Regulations, are available on the Company’s website i.e. www.bajajauto.com

              D J Balaji Rao, Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, was present at the annual
              general meeting of the Company held on 20 July 2018, to answer shareholders’ queries.




48   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                             Corporate Governance




Risk Management Committee
Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee
consisting of composition as specified therein. The terms of reference of the Committee which, inter
alia, include, to manage the integrated risk, to lay down procedures to inform the Board about risk
assessment and minimisation procedures in the Company, to frame, implement and monitor the risk
management plan for the Company and perform such other functions as the Board may deem
necessary including cyber security etc.

The Company has a Board approved Risk Management framework. The Committee and the Board
periodically review the Company’s risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that
the Management identifies and controls risk through a properly defined framework.

During the year under review, the Company did not trade in nor had any exposure in
commodities market.

Table 7: Composition of Risk Management Committee and attendance record
of members for 2018-19

                                                                           Attendance at the meeting
Name of director/member Category                                            held on 13 March 2019



Nanoo Pamnani              Chairman, non-executive, independent                        Yes
D J Balaji Rao             Non-executive, independent                                  Yes
Kevin D’sa                 Chief Financial Officer                                     Yes


Stakeholders' Relationship Committee
Pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted
a Stakeholders' Relationship Committee. This Committee was constituted to specifically look into the
shareholders’ and investors’ complaints on matters relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of annual
report, non-receipt of dividend, payment of unclaimed dividends etc.

In addition, the Committee also looked into matters that can facilitate better investor services and
relations. The Board was kept apprised of all the major developments on investors’ issues through
various reports and statements furnished to the Board from time to time throughout the year.

In compliance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, the terms of reference
of the Committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019.

The detailed terms of reference of Stakeholders' Relationship Committee have been placed on the
Company's website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

During the year under review, the Committee met on 30 January 2019 to, inter alia, review the status of
investors’ services rendered.

Table 8: Composition of Stakeholders' Relationship Committee and attendance
record of members for 2018-19

                                                                        Attendance at the meeting held
Name of director            Category                                         on 30 January 2019



D J Balaji Rao              Chairman, non-executive, independent                      Yes
Dr. Gita Piramal            Non-executive, independent                                Yes
Dr. Omkar Goswami           Non-executive, independent                                Yes




                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19      49
     Corporate Governance




              The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Compliance Officer.

              The Secretarial Auditor was also present.

              The Committee expressed its satisfaction on the overall status of compliance and actions taken on
              various investor-related matters.

              D J Balaji Rao, Chairman of the Stakeholders' Relationship Committee, was present at the annual
              general meeting of the Company held on 20 July 2018, to answer shareholders’ queries.

              Table 9: Investors' complaints attended and resolved during 2018-19

              Investors' complaints                                                            Attended/resolved during 2018-19



              Pending at the beginning of the year                                                                 Nil
              Received during the year                                                                             17
              Disposed of during the year                                                                          15
              Remaining unresolved at the end of the year                                                          2*
              *As on 31 March 2019, there were 2 pending issues to be addressed or resolved. These 2 complaints have since been resolved.

              Pursuant to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations for dealing with physical unclaimed shares,
              the Company has a demat account with HDFC Bank, titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd.-Unclaimed Suspense
              Account’, to which all the unclaimed shares stand transferred in terms of the said circular.

              More details on this subject and on shareholders’ related matters have been furnished in the chapter
              on General Shareholder Information.

              Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee
              The Board at its meeting held on 4 February 2016, to meet the requirement of section 46 of
              the Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 6 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014
              and regulation 39 of the SEBI Listing Regulations constituted a Committee of the Board to approve the
              issuance of duplicate share certificate in lieu of original share certificate lost or misplaced.

              During the year under review, the Committee met once on 4 February 2019.

              Table 10: Composition of the Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee and
              attendance record of members for 2018-19
                                                                                                             Attendance at the
              Name of director             Category                                                   meeting held on 4 February 2019



              Rahul Bajaj                  Chairman, executive                                                           Yes
              Rajiv Bajaj                  Managing Director and CEO, executive                                          Yes
              Sanjiv Bajaj                 Non-executive                                                                 Yes


              Independent Directors’ meeting
              In compliance with Schedule IV to the Companies Act, 2013 and regulation 25(3) of the
              SEBI Listing Regulations, the independent directors held their separate meeting on 14 March 2019,
              without the attendance of non-independent directors and members of the Management,
              to inter alia discuss the following:

              i) Noting of the report of Performance Evaluation for 2018-19 from Chairman of the Board;
              ii) Review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a whole;
              iii) Review the performance of the Chairperson of the Company, taking into account the views of
                   executive directors and non-executive directors;


50   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                              Corporate Governance




iv) Assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company
    Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform
    their duties;
v) Noting and review of informal meeting with Senior Management Personnel

All independent directors, except P Murari, D S Mehta and Dr. Naushad Forbes, were present
at the meeting.

The independent directors present elected Dr. Gita Piramal as Chairperson for the meeting, deliberated
on the above and expressed their satisfaction on each of the matters.

Remuneration of directors
Pecuniary relationship/transaction with non-executive directors
During the year under review, there was no pecuniary relationship/transaction with any non-executive
directors of the Company.

The register of contracts is maintained by the Company pursuant to section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The register is signed by all the directors present at the respective Board meetings.


Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors
Non-executive directors of the Company play a crucial role in the independent functioning of the Board.
They bring in an external perspective to decision-making and provide leadership and strategic
guidance while maintaining objective judgment. They also oversee the corporate governance
framework of the Company.

As stated earlier, the Remuneration Policy, inter alia, disclosing the criteria of making payments to
directors, key managerial personnel and employees is placed on the Company's website
www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are paid sitting fees and commission as earlier stated in this Report.


Executive directors
During the year under review, the Company paid remuneration to Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director
and CEO, Rahul Bajaj, Executive Chairman, Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director and Rakesh
Sharma, Executive Director of the Company as provided in detail in an annexure to the Directors’ Report
in section VI(A) of Form MGT-9, i.e. extract of the Annual Return.

The Executive Directors are entitled to superannuation benefits payable in the form of an annuity from
an approved life insurance company, which forms part of the perquisites allowed to them. No pension
is paid by the Company.


Details of remuneration to directors
The Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) for
the benefit of the permanent employees and/or Directors of the Company and/or its holding (if any,
in future) and subsidiary Company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any employee, who is
a promoter or belongs to the promoter group.

During the year under review, none of the directors was paid any performance-linked incentive,
apart from Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director.

In 2018-19, the Company did not advance any loans to any of the non-executive directors and/or
Managing Director. Details of remuneration paid/payable to directors for the year 2018-19 are provided
in an annexure to the Directors’ Report in section VI(B) of Form MGT-9, i.e. extract of the Annual Return.


                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19      51
     Corporate Governance




              Shareholding of directors
              Information on shares held by directors in the Company as on 31 March 2019 is provided in
              an annexure to the Directors' Report in section IV(v) of Form MGT-9, i.e. extract of the Annual Return.

              Management
              Management discussion and analysis
              This is given as a separate chapter in the Annual Report.


              Disclosure of material transactions
              Pursuant to regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Senior Management has made periodical
              disclosures to the Board relating to all material financial and commercial transactions, where they had (or were
              deemed to have had) personal interest that might have been in potential conflict with the interest of the Company.
              The same was Nil, except in the case of one member of the Senior Management, in whose case the disclosure
              was discussed, reviewed and found in order by the Board.


              Compliances regarding insider trading
              Pursuant to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations), 2015, the Company had a Board-approved Code
              of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by insiders (‘code of conduct’) and a Code of Practices and
              Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (‘code of fair disclosure’).

              During the year under review, SEBI has amended SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
              In view of the amendment to the said Regulations, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on
              13 March 2019, approved the following, with effect from 1 April 2019:

              a. Revised Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report trading by Designated Persons
              b. Revised Code of Practices and Procedures for fair disclosure of Unpublished Price
                 Sensitive Information
              c. Revised Whistle blower policy
              d. Institutional mechanism for prevention of Insider Trading
              e. Amendment to the terms of reference of the Audit Committee
              f. List of designated persons for the Code of Conduct mentioned above

              The code of conduct and code of fair disclosure framed by the Company have helped in ensuring
              compliance with the requirements.

              Means of communication
              Quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results and other public notices issued for the shareholders
              are published in numerous leading dailies, such as Financial Express, Business Standard, Kesari, Mint
              and Hindu Business Line. An official press release is also issued. The Company also sends the
              half-yearly financial results, along with a detailed write-up, to each household of shareholders.

              The Company has its own website, www.bajajauto.com which contains all important public domain
              information including presentations, if any, made to the media, analysts and institutional investors.
              The website contains information as prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI Listing
              Regulations, including details of the corporate contact persons and share transfer agent of
              the Company, shareholding pattern etc.

              Section 20 and 129 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 permit
              companies to service delivery of documents electronically on the registered members’/shareholders’
              email addresses. The Company, during the year under review, sent documents, such as notice calling
              the general meeting, audited financial statements, directors’ report, auditors’ report, credit of dividend
              intimation letters, etc. in electronic form at the email addresses provided by the shareholders and
              made available by them to the Company through the depositories. Shareholders desiring to receive the
              said documents in physical form continued to get the same in physical form, upon request.


52   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                 Corporate Governance




All financial and other vital official news releases and documents under the SEBI Listing
Regulations are also communicated to the concerned stock exchanges, besides being placed
on the Company's website.


Information on general body meetings and details of special
resolution(s) passed
During the previous three years, the Annual General Meetings (AGM) of the Company were held at the
registered office of the Company at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 on the following dates
and time and special resolutions were passed there-at as under:

                                                      Details of special resolution(s) passed at the
Details of AGM       Date and time of AGM             annual general meetings, if any



                                                      a. Approval of appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava
                                                         (DIN 07464437) as a Whole-time Director, with
                                                         the designation of Executive Director
9th AGM              27 July 2016 at 12.15 p.m.
                                                      b. Approval for payment of commission to
                                                         non-executive directors for a period of five years
                                                         commencing from 1 April 2016
10th AGM             20 July 2017 at 12.15 p.m.                                  Nil
11th AGM             20 July 2018 at 12.15 p.m.                                  Nil



Special resolutions passed through Postal Ballot during 2018-19
The Company conducted following businesses through Postal Ballot during year 2018-19:

a. Approval for the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019.
b. Approval for issue and allotment of equity shares to employees of holding (if any, in future) and
   subsidiary company(ies) under the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019.
c. Approval of acquisition of equity shares from secondary market through Trust route for
   implementation of Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 to the employees of the
   Company and that of the employees of holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary companies.

Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary was appointed to act as the Scrutiniser for
conducting voting process in a fair and transparent manner.

The Result of the Postal Ballot was announced on 13 March 2019 and details of voting result on the
resolutions are as follows:

                                                                                Votes (No. of shares and %)
Sr. No    Description                                                         In favour        Against



                                                                                 209,411,058        4,185,412
  1.      Approval for the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019.
                                                                                    (98.04%)           (1.96%)
          Approval for issue and allotment of equity shares to employees of
                                                                                 210,277,104        3,342,280
  2.      holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary company(ies) under the
                                                                                    (98.44%)           (1.56%)
          Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019.
          Approval of acquisition of equity shares from secondary market
          through Trust route for implementation of Bajaj Auto Employee
                                                                                 210,277,697        3,341,642
  3.      Stock Option Scheme 2019 to the employees of the Company
                                                                                    (98.44%)           (1.56%)
          and that of the employees of holding (if any, in future) and
          subsidiary companies.




                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19    53
     Corporate Governance




              Procedure for postal ballot
              The Company had sent the postal ballot notice dated 30 January 2019 and postal ballot form along with
              postage pre-paid business reply envelope to members/beneficial owners through email at their
              registered email IDs and through physical copy to the members who have not registered their email
              IDs. The Company had also published notice in the newspapers for the information of the members.
              Voting rights were reckoned on the equity shares held by the members as on the cut-off date.
              The voting period for postal ballot and E-voting was from 10 February 2019 to 11 March 2019.

              The postal ballot results were intimated to the stock exchanges pursuant to regulation 44(3)
              of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as well as displayed on the Company’s website
              www.bajajauto.com/investors/e-voting-information The Company has also complied with the
              procedure for Postal Ballot in terms of the provisions of section 110 of the Companies Act, 2013,
              read with rule 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014.

              There is no immediate proposal for passing any resolution through postal ballot. None of the
              businesses proposed to be transacted in the ensuing Annual General Meeting requires passing
              of a special resolution through postal ballot.

              Details of capital market non-compliance, if any
              There was no non-compliance by the Company of any legal requirements; nor has there been any
              penalty/stricture imposed on the Company by any stock exchange, SEBI or any statutory authority on
              any matter related to capital markets during the last three years.

              Disclosure under Sexual Harassment of Women at
              Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
              Act, 2013
              The disclosure as required under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
              Redressal) Act, 2013 is given in the Directors’ Report of the Company.

              Compliance Certificate
              The MD and CEO and the CFO have certified to the Board with regard to the financial statements
              and other matters as required under regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II to the
              SEBI Listing Regulations.

              Report on corporate governance
              This chapter, read together with the information given in the Directors’ Report and the chapters on
              Management Discussion and Analysis and General Shareholder Information, constitute the compliance
              report on Corporate Governance during 2018-19. The Company has been regularly forwarding the
              quarterly compliance report to the Stock exchanges as required under regulation 27(2) of the SEBI
              Listing Regulations.

              Statutory Auditors
              S R B C and Co. LLP are the statutory auditors of the Company. Total fees paid by the Company and its
              subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis to the auditors including all entities in their network firm/entity of
              which they are a part is given below:
                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                          Statutory          Other
              Sr. No   Particulars                                                        Audit Fee          Services



                 1     Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                                                1.64              1.15
                 2     PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                                          -                   -
                 3     Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV                                              -                   -


54   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
     Corporate Governance




              Auditors' certificate on corporate governance
              The Company has obtained the certificate from its statutory auditors regarding compliance with
              the provisions relating to corporate governance laid down in Part E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing
              Regulations. This certificate is annexed to the Directors' Report and will be sent to the stock exchanges,
              along with the Annual Report to be filed by the Company.



              Compliance of mandatory and discretionary
              requirements
              Mandatory
              The Company has complied with the mandatory requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations.


              Discretionary
              The Company has also complied with the discretionary requirements as under:


              1) The Board
                 Since the Company has an executive Chairman, the requirement regarding non-executive Chairman
                 is not applicable.


              2) Shareholder rights
                 A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of significant events in the
                 preceding six months is sent to each household of shareholders.


              3) Modified opinion(s) in audit report
                 The Company confirms that its financial statements are with unmodified audit opinion.


              4) Separate posts of Chairperson and Managing Director/CEO
                 The Company has appointed separate persons to the post of Chairman and Managing Director.

              5) Reporting of Internal Auditor
                 The Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.




56   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION
12th Annual General Meeting
Date                              26 July 2019
Time                              12.15 p.m.
                                  Registered office at
Venue                             Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035.




Financial calendar
Approval of audited annual results for year ending 31 March                   April/May
Mailing of annual reports                                                     June
Annual general meeting                                                        July
Unaudited first quarter financial results                                     July
Unaudited second quarter financial results                                    October
Unaudited third quarter financial results                                     January/Early February



Share transfer agent
The Company has appointed Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd. as its share transfer agent and accordingly,
processing of share transfer/dematerialisation/rematerialisation and allied activities was outsourced
to Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad with effect from 10 July 2008. Our Registrar and Share
Transfer Agent i.e. Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd., effective from 17 November 2018 are now Karvy
Fintech Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Karvy”). All the share registry services are now handled in
the name of the new entity i.e. Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd.

All physical transfers, transmission, transposition, issue of duplicate share certificate(s), issue of
demand drafts in lieu of dividend warrants, etc. as well as requests for dematerialisation/
rematerialisation are being processed in periodical cycles at Karvy. The work related to
dematerialisation/rematerialisation is handled by Karvy through connectivity with NSDL and CDSL.

Dates of book closure
The register of members and share transfer books of the Company will remain closed from
Saturday, 13 July 2019 to Friday, 26 July 2019, both days inclusive.

Dividend and date of dividend payment
Board of Directors has proposed a dividend of H 60 per equity share (600%) of the face value of
H 10 for the financial year 2018-19, subject to approval by the members at the annual general meeting
as against H 60 per equity share (600%) for the previous year.

Dividend on equity shares, if declared, at the annual general meeting, will be credited/dispatched
between Tuesday, 30 July 2019 and Wednesday, 31 July 2019 as under:

a) to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided by Karvy to the
   Company, as on or before the closing hours on Friday, 12 July 2019; and


                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19   57
     General Shareholder Information




               b) to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form, as per the beneficial ownership
                  data made available to the Company by National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and the Central
                  Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) as of the close of business hours on Friday, 12 July 2019.

               Payment of dividend
               As per the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
               Regulations, 2015 (the ‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), and SEBI Circular dated 20 April 2018, companies
               shall use any electronic mode of payment approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment
               to the members. Accordingly, dividend, if declared, will be paid through electronic mode, where the
               bank account details of the members are available. Where dividend payment is made through
               electronic mode, intimation regarding such remittance would be sent separately to the members.
               In case where the dividend cannot be paid through electronic mode, the same will be paid by warrants
               with bank account details printed thereon. In case of non–availability of bank account details,
               address of the members will be printed on the warrants.

               Pursuant to aforesaid circular, the Company had written to shareholders holding shares in physical
               form requesting them to furnish details regarding their PAN and also their bank details for payment of
               dividend through electronic mode. Those shareholders who are yet to respond to the Company’s
               request in this regard are once again requested to take action in the matter at the earliest.

               For enabling payment of dividend through electronic mode, members holding shares in physical form
               are requested to furnish, on or before Friday, 12 July 2019, updated particulars of their bank account,
               to Karvy along with a photocopy of a ‘cancelled’ cheque and self–attested copy of PAN card.

               Beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form are requested to furnish their bank account details
               to their respective depository participants and ensure that such changes are recorded by them
               correctly on or before Friday, 12 July 2019. The request to update particulars of bank account
               should be signed as per the specimen signature registered with Karvy/depository participants,
               as the case may be.

               Unclaimed dividends
               As per section 205C of the Companies Act, 1956, any money transferred by the Company to the unpaid
               dividend account and remaining unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of such transfer
               shall be transferred to a fund called the Investor Education and Protection Fund (Fund) set up by the
               Central Government. Accordingly, the unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial years 2007-08 and
               2008-09 were transferred to the Fund in September 2015 and 2016 respectively.

               The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notified the commencement date as 7 September 2016 for
               section 124 and a few sub-sections of section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 and also notified the new
               Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016
               (‘IEPF Rules, 2016’), outlining the detailed procedure for implementation regarding the Fund and the
               Authority under the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, the unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the
               financial year 2009-10 and 2010-11 were transferred to the Fund in September 2017 and
               November 2018 respectively.

               As previously provided under IEPF (Uploading of information regarding unpaid and unclaimed amounts
               lying with companies) Rules, 2012, and now under the IEPF Rules, 2016, the Company filed the
               necessary particulars of all the unclaimed and unpaid amounts through e-form IEPF 2 with MCA on
               17 October 2018 for the financial year ended 31 March 2018. The details of unpaid and unclaimed
               dividends for the financial years 2010-11 to 2017-18 have been uploaded on the Company’s website
               www.bajajauto.com and also on the website specified by ministry of corporate affairs
               www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/service

               Unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial year 2011-12 shall become due for transfer to the said
               Fund in August 2019. Members are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, for the
               financial year 2011-12, before the amount becomes due for transfer to the Fund. Communication is
               being sent to the members, who have not yet claimed dividend for the financial year 2011-12,
               requesting them to claim the same as well as unpaid dividend, if any, for the subsequent years.


58   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                 General Shareholder Information




Transfer of shares to IEPF
As informed in previous year, under section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended, there has
been a further provision that all shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for
seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred by the Company, within a period of thirty days of
such shares becoming due to be transferred to IEPF.

Accordingly, in due compliance of the provisions of rule 6(3) of IEPF Rules, 2016, the Company sent
individual letters through Ordinary/Speed Post to such shareholders, in respect of whom dividend for
a consecutive period of seven years had remained unpaid. Further, public notice was released in
newspapers on 10 December 2016, 25 April 2017 and 21 June 2018.

MCA vide its notification dated 28 February 2017 amended the IEPF Rules 2016 called as the Investor
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Amendment
Rules, 2017, prescribing certain modified procedure for the activities under the IEPF Rules, 2016.

In view of the same, during the year under review, the Company transferred 23,791 equity shares of the
face value of H 10 each in respect of 55 shareholders to the Demat Account of the IEPF Authority
held with NSDL and filed necessary e-form IEPF-4 with MCA on 29 November 2018. Details of such
shareholders, whose shares are transferred to IEPF and their unpaid dividends for the subsequent
years are available to the concerned shareholders on the website of the Company at
www.bajajauto.com

As provided under these Rules, the shareholders would be allowed to claim such unpaid dividends and
the shares transferred to the Fund by following the required procedure. The said IEPF Rules, 2016 and
amendment thereunder are available on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

Shareholders are requested to get in touch with the compliance officer for further details on the subject
at investors@bajajauto.co.in

Share transfer system
Share transfers received by the share transfer agent/Company are registered within 15 days from the
date of receipt, provided the documents are complete in all respects. The total number of shares
transferred in the physical category during 2018-19 were 126,567 shares versus 54,992 shares during
2017-18. The details thereof were placed before the Board on a quarterly basis.

As per SEBI norms, efforts are underway to update Permanent Account Number (PAN) and bank
account details of its concerned shareholder(s) and communications have been sent by the Company
to eligible shareholders in this regard. Members are requested to update these details with
Karvy/Company at the earliest.

Dematerialisation/rematerialisation of shares
During 2018-19, 812,913 shares were dematerialised, compared to 284,866 shares during 2017-18.

No shares were rematerialised during the year 2018-19.

As per SEBI norms, with effect from 1 April 2019, only transmission or transposition requests can be
processed in physical form; All transfers shall be processed in dematerialised form only.

Shares held in physical and electronic mode as on 31 March 2019 are as given in Table 1.




                                                                                   12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19      59
     General Shareholder Information




               Table 1: Shares held in physical and electronic mode

                                      Position as on 31 March 2019       Position as on 31 March 2018          Net change during 2018-19
                                                           % to total                          % to total                          % to total
               Particulars             No. of shares    shareholding     No. of shares      shareholding       No. of shares    shareholding



               Physical                  17,563,252              6.07      18,391,011                   6.36       (827,759)           (0.29)
               Demat
               NSDL                     265,641,510             91.80     264,952,908               91.56           688,602                0.24
               CDSL                        6,162,258             2.13        6,023,101                  2.08        139,157                0.05
               Sub-total                271,803,768             93.93     270,976,009               93.64           827,759                0.29
               Total                    289,367,020           100.00      289,367,020             100.00                   -                  -

               .

               Stock code
               1. BSE Ltd.                                                                                      532977
               2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.                                                         BAJAJ-AUTO
               3. ISIN for depositories (NSDL and CDSL)                                                         INE917I01010
               4. Bloomberg                                                                                     BJAUT.IN
               5. Reuters                                                                                       BAJA.BO


               Listing on stock exchanges
               Shares of the Company are currently listed on the following stock exchanges:

               Name                                                     Address



               1. BSE Ltd. (BSE)                                        1st Floor, New Trading Ring Rotunda Building,
                                                                        P J Tower, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001.
               2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)           Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor Plot No.C-1,
                                                                        G Block, Bandra-Kurla Complex
                                                                        Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051.

               Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has entered into uniform Listing Agreement
               with BSE and NSE. For the year 2018-19, the listing fees payable to these stock exchanges have been
               paid in full.




60   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                       General Shareholder Information




Market price data
Table 2: Monthly highs and lows of Company’s shares during 2018-19
(L vis-à-vis BSE Sensex)

                                              BSE                                                NSE
Month                                       High                   Low                  High                     Low      Closing BSE Sensex



Apr 18                             2,976.35                  2,747.00                2,977.50               2,746.25                     35,160.36
May 18                             3,183.80                  2,701.10                3,043.40               2,703.50                     35,322.38
Jun 18                             2,948.60                  2,705.00                2,939.40               2,705.40                     35,423.48
Jul 18                             3,213.95                  2,604.00                3,194.95               2,605.00                     37,606.58
Aug 18                             2,771.55                  2,610.00                2,770.00               2,606.00                     38,645.07
Sep 18                             2,950.00                  2,638.00                2,949.00               2,636.00                     36,227.14
Oct 18                             2,765.00                  2,425.00                2,769.90               2,420.00                     34,442.05
Nov 18                             2,769.45                  2,569.55                2,769.70               2,568.05                     36,194.30
Dec 18                             2,900.00                  2,669.40                2,905.00               2,670.00                     36,068.33
Jan 19                             2,745.00                  2,461.00                2,747.25               2,461.10                     36,256.69
Feb 19                             2,937.75                  2,545.05                2,941.00               2,543.00                     35,867.44
Mar 19                             3,045.25                  2,820.00                3,047.80               2,814.80                     38,672.91



             Bajaj Auto Ltd. stock performance vs BSE Sensex, during 2018-19,
                               indexed
           Bajaj Auto Ltd. Vs BSE      to 100
                                  Sensex,     on 31toMarch
                                          indexed     100 on2018
                                                             31 March 2019


           160


           140


           120
   Price




           100


            80


            60


            40
                 Apr 18


                          May 18


                                   Jun 18


                                              Jul 18


                                                          Aug 18


                                                                   Sep 18


                                                                            Oct 18


                                                                                        Nov 18


                                                                                                   Dec 18


                                                                                                              Jan 19


                                                                                                                       Feb 19


                                                                                                                                Mar 19




                                                       31 March 2018 to 31 March 2019
                                              BSE Sensex                              Bajaj Auto Share Price




                                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19     61
     General Shareholder Information




               Distribution of shareholding
               Table 3 gives details about the pattern of shareholding across various categories as on 31 March 2019,
               while Table 4 gives the data according to size classes.

               Table 3: Distribution of shareholdings across categories as on 31 March 2019
                                                               31 March 2019                     31 March 2018
                                                                               % to total                     % to total
               Categories                                  No. of shares         capital    No. of shares       capital



               Promoters                                    148,105,032            51.18     142,657,982          49.30
               Friends and associates of promoters            29,822,882           10.31      30,180,364          10.43
               FPIs/FIIs                                      45,254,414           15.64      49,769,919          17.20
               Public Financial Institutions                  14,649,522            5.06      17,960,296            6.21
               Mutual Funds                                    6,282,566            2.17        6,282,828           2.17
               Nationalised and other banks                     263,269             0.09         266,577            0.09
               NRIs and OCBs                                   1,410,604            0.49        1,093,692           0.38
               Others                                         43,578,731           15.06      41,155,362          14.22
               Total                                        289,367,020           100.00     289,367,020         100.00


               Table 4: Distribution of shareholding according to size class as on 31 March 2019
                                                            No. of shareholders             Shares held in each class
               Category                                      Number                  %         Number                   %



               1 to 500                                      103,202              94.21       4,484,485             1.55
               501 to 1000                                      2,221              2.03       1,634,799             0.56
               1001 to 2000                                     1,369              1.25       1,979,639             0.68
               2001 to 3000                                      614               0.56       1,529,585             0.53
               3001 to 4000                                      382               0.35       1,348,173             0.47
               4001 to 5000                                      258               0.23       1,170,499             0.41
               5001 to 10000                                     578               0.53       4,180,195             1.44
               10001 and above                                   917               0.84     273,039,645           94.36
               Total                                         109,541            100.00      289,367,020          100.00



               Shareholders' and investors' grievances
               The Board of Directors of the Company currently has a Stakeholders' Relationship Committee to
               specifically look into and resolve grievances of security-holders on various matters.

               Routine queries/complaints received from shareholders are promptly attended to and replied,
               queries/complaints received during the period under review were relating to non-receipt of dividend by
               warrants as well as through electronic clearing service, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of
               dividend, fraudulent transfer of shares, non-receipt of transferred shares and change of address
               and/or bank particulars. As on 31 March 2019, there were 2 pending issues to be addressed or
               resolved. These 2 complaints have since been resolved.

               During the year, letters were received from SEBI/ROC/Stock Exchanges/Investors concerning
               17 complaints filed by the shareholders on various matters. In respect of each of these complaints,
               replies were sent to SEBI/ROC/Stock Exchanges/Investors in the prescribed format, as the case may be
               and a few action remained to be taken at the Company’s end.


62   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
     General Shareholder Information




               Demat suspense account with HDFC Bank for
               unclaimed shares
               In accordance with the provisions contained in clause 5A of the erstwhile Listing Agreement
               (now corresponding to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations) as amended by SEBI vide
               circular dated 16 December 2010, the Company, during the year 2011-12, had sent three reminders to
               such shareholders whose shares were lying 'undelivered/unclaimed' with the Company, followed by
               opening of the unclaimed share suspense demat account with HDFC Bank in April 2012.

               After completing the necessary formalities, 44,375 shares held by 148 shareholders were transferred
               to the said suspense account in April 2012. Voting rights on such shares are to remain frozen till the
               rightful owner claims the shares.

               The Company, acting as a trustee in respect of the unclaimed shares, follows the modalities for
               the operation of the said account in the manner set out in regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing
               Regulations.

               The summary of this account for the year 2018-19 is as follows:
                                                                                                No. of          No. of
               Sr. No.   Particulars                                                         shareholders       shares



                   i.    Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding shares
                         lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on 1 April 2018                     40               5,426
                  ii.    No. of shareholders who approached the Company for
                         transfer of shares from the Unclaimed Suspense Account
                         during the year 2018-19                                                            –               –
                  iii.   No. of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
                         the Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year 2018-19                             –               –
                  iv.    No. of shares transferred to IEPF Authority during
                         the year 2018-19                                                                   7            2,100
                  v      Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding shares lying in
                         the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on 31 March 2019                             33               3,326


               Nomination
               Individual shareholders holding shares singly or jointly in physical form can nominate a person in
               whose name the shares shall be transferable in the case of death of the registered shareholder(s).
               The prescribed nomination form (SH-13) will be sent by the share transfer agent of the Company upon
               such request and is also available on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

               Nomination facility for shares held in electronic form is also available with depository participant.

               Credit Rating
               The Company has neither issued any debt instruments nor undertaken any fixed deposit programme
               or any scheme or proposal involving mobilisation of funds, whether in India or abroad.
               However, the Company has obtained on 28 December 2018 ‘FAAA’ rating from CRISIL on the
               Fixed Deposits of the Company. This rating indicates that the degree of safety of timely payment
               of interest and principal is very strong.

               Webcast of proceedings of Annual General Meeting
               As per SEBI notification dated 9 May 2018, top 100 listed entities shall, w.e.f. 1 April 2019,
               provide one-way live webcast of the proceedings of the Annual General Meetings. Accordingly,
               the Company is taking necessary steps to meet this requirement in the ensuing Annual General
               Meetings scheduled on 26 July 2019.




64   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                  General Shareholder Information




Voting through electronic means
Pursuant to section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder and provisions
under the SEBI Listing Regulations, every listed company is required to provide its members,
the facility to exercise their right to vote at general meetings by electronic means.

The Company has entered into an arrangement with Karvy the authorised agency for this purpose, to
facilitate such e-voting for its members.

The shareholders would therefore be able to exercise their voting rights on the items put up in the
Notice of annual general meeting, through such e-voting method. Further, in accordance with the
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended, the Company shall also be
making arrangements to provide for e-voting facility at the venue of the annual general meeting.

Shareholders, who are attending the meeting and who have not already cast their votes by remote
e-voting shall only be able to exercise their right of voting at the meeting.

Cut-off date, as per the said Rules, shall be 19 July 2019 and the remote e-voting shall be open for a
period of three days, from 23 July 2019 (9.00 a.m.) till 25 July 2019 (5.00 p.m.). The Board has appointed
Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary as scrutiniser for the e-voting process.

Detailed procedure is given in the Notice of the Twelfth Annual General Meeting and is also placed
on the Company's website.

Outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/
warrants
The Company does not have any outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/warrants
as on date of this Report.

Shareholders may get in touch with the Company Secretary for further assistance.

Plant locations
Bajaj Auto has plants located at the following places:

1.   Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 (Maharashtra)
2.   Bajaj Nagar, Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136 (Maharashtra)
3.   MIDC, Plot No. A1, Mahalunge Village, Chakan 410 501 Dist. Pune (Maharashtra)
4.   Plot No. 2, Sector-10, IIE Pantnagar, Udhamsinghnagar 263 531 (Uttarakhand)




                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19     65
     General Shareholder Information




               Address for correspondence
               Investors and shareholders can correspond with the share transfer agent or the registered office of the
               Company at the following address:


               Share transfer agent
               Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. (previously known as Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd.)
               Unit: Bajaj Auto Ltd.
               Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31-32,
               Gachibowli Financial District, Nanakramguda,
               Hyderabad 500 032.

               Contact persons
               M S Madhusudhan
               Mohd. Mohsinuddin
               Tel. No: (040) 6716 2222/1562
               Fax No: (040) 2300 1153
               Toll free No: 1800 345 4001
               Email: mohsin.mohd@karvy.com
               Website: www.karvyfintech.com


               Company
               Bajaj Auto Ltd.
               Mumbai-Pune Road,
               Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

               Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
               Dr. J Sridhar
               Tel. No: (020) 6610 6503
               Fax No: (020) 2740 7380
               Email: investors@bajajauto.co.in
               Website: www.bajajauto.com




66   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
The Directors present their Twelfth Annual report and Audited Financial Statements for the
year ended 31 March 2019.

Financial results
The financial results of the Company are elaborated in the Management Discussion and
Analysis Report.

The highlights of the Financial Results are as under:


Sales in Numbers                                                                               FY2019       FY2018



Motorcycles                                                                                  4,236,873    3,369,334
Commercial vehicles                                                                            782,630      637,457
Total                                                                                        5,019,503    4,006,791
Of which Exports                                                                             2,078,730    1,662,577

                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                    FY2019       FY2018



Total revenue                                                                                31,899.27    26,910.51
Total expenses                                                                               25,538.11    21,095.94
Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                       6,361.16     5,814.57
Exceptional items                                                                             (342.00)         32.00
Profit before tax                                                                             6,703.16     5,782.57
Tax expense                                                                                   2,027.98     1,714.47
Profit for the year                                                                           4,675.18     4,068.10
Earnings per share (D)                                                                          161.6         140.6



Closing balances in reserve/other equity
                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                    FY2019       FY2018



General reserve                                                                               4,921.60     4,453.60
Retained earnings                                                                            16,451.58    14,321.65
Cash flow hedging reserve                                                                        60.31         79.72
Costs of hedging reserve                                                                       (17.47)       (40.48)
FVTOCI reserve                                                                                   74.51              –
Total                                                                                        21,490.53    18,814.49
Note: Detailed movement of above reserves can be seen in 'Statement of Changes in Equity''




                                                                                                 12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19   67
     Directors’ Report




               Dividend
               The directors recommend for consideration of the shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting,
               payment of a dividend of H 60 per equity share, (600%) for the year ended 31 March 2019. The amount
               of dividend and the tax thereon aggregate to H 2,093.08 crore.

               For the year ended 31 March 2018, the dividend paid was H 60 per share of H 10 each (600%) and the
               total dividend and the tax thereon to the extent applicable aggregated to H 2,093.08 crore.

               Share capital
               The paid-up equity share capital as on 31 March 2019 was H 289.37 crore. There was no public issue,
               rights issue, bonus issue or preferential issue, etc. during the year. The Company has not issued shares
               with differential voting rights or sweat equity shares, nor has it granted any stock options.

               Operations
               Detailed information on the operations of the Company and details on the state of affairs of the
               Company are covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

               Capacity expansion and new projects
               The Company’s current installed capacity is 6.33 million units per annum.

               As regards the Company’s much awaited Quadricycle – QUTE, launch of the product and sale has
               commenced in few states where the Company has received requisite approvals for sale. The response
               has been positive.

               4,400 (nos.) of Qute were sold in various international markets during the year 2018-19, as against
               1,605 (nos.) in the year 2017-18.

               During the year under review, 627 (nos.) of Qute were sold in domestic markets.


               Research and Development and
               technology absorption
               A) Products
               Many new products were launched during the year under review. Detailed information on the new
               products is covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

               B) Process
               R&D has been working on improving its operations in a number of areas as listed below:

               l   Manpower: R&D has been expanding its team size in areas of design, analysis and validation in
                   order to keep up with the rapidly expanding aspirations of the Company.

               l   Facilities: R&D continued to enhance its design, computing, prototype manufacturing and validation
                   facilities. A number of new test facilities and prototyping facilities were added.

               C) Technology
               As in the past, new and improved technology has been introduced during the year under review and the
               detailed information on the same is covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.




68   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Directors’ Report




D) Outgo
The expenditure on research and development during 2018-19 and in the previous year was:
                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

Particulars                                                                            FY2019       FY2018



i.   Capital (including technical know-how)                                               64.00          38.58
ii. Recurring                                                                           392.35          334.11
Total                                                                                   456.35          372.69
iii. Total research and development expenditure as a percentage of sales                  1.54%         1.48%



Conservation of energy
Company continues its efforts to reduce and optimise the energy consumption at all its manufacturing
facilities, including corporate office at Pune.

Significant reduction in energy consumption has been achieved by various means as shown hereunder:


A)      Electrical energy
        l     Use of IGBT based rectifier in place of conventional SCR based rectifier for ED process

        l     Provision of Energy Efficient Pumps for ETP/STP, Water Supply and Fire Systems

        l     Use of Energy Efficient LED Lighting for Street Lights, Shops and Offices

        l     Optimising compressed air pressure by use of portable Small Compressors on holidays

        l     Use of energy efficient air conditioner in place of conventional air conditioner

        l     Optimisation of processes and operational control

        l     Installation of common grid for compressed air to balance compressors loading

        l     Use of Mid Frequency DC Welding Machine in place of AC Welding Machine for
              Seam Welding Process

        l     Use of Active filters for harmonic suppression to reduce energy loss


B)      Water
        l     Rain water harvesting with Ground Recharge

        l     Replacement of underground hydrant and water pipeline with above ground level pipeline to
              arrest water leakages

        l     Installation of second stage RO at paint shop

        l     Use of one touch water taps in canteen and washrooms

        l     Continued use of treated water for processes like cooling towers, central coolant systems,
              de-sludge pool and incinerator, compressor cooling tower and AHU etc.




                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          69
     Directors’ Report




               C)        LPG/propane
                         l   Thermal imaging/audit for ovens in paint shop and countermeasure

                         l   Weight reduction of hangers in paint shop to reduce heat losses

                         l   Burner efficiency improvement through efficient burners

                         l   Teflon coated gratings in painting booth to eliminate cleaning activity through fluidised bed

                         l   Upgradation of furnace insulation to reduce heat losses

                         l   Provision of hydromax solution for hot water generator to reduce fuel consumption

                         l   Continued usage of low temperature chemicals for pre-treatment process


               D)        Utilisation of renewable energy-key initiatives
                         l   Use of solar energy through Roof Top Solar Power System.
                             Akurdi Total Capacity        –     2 MWp
                             Chakan Total Capacity        –     2 MWp
                             Total Solar energy generated –     53.25 lakh KWH

                         l   Installation of daylight pipes in plants.

               Impact of measures taken
               As a result of the initiatives taken for conservation of energy and natural resources, the Company has
               effected an overall reduction in consumption as given in the Table below:
                                                                                        % Reduction w.r.t. previous year
               Description                                                                      FY2019               FY2018



               Electricity consumption                                                             5.53                  3.60
               Water consumption                                                                   3.27                  5.53
               LPG/PNG consumption                                                                 1.05                  2.37



               Investment/savings                                                                                  (H In Crore)

               Description                                                                      FY2019               FY2018



               Investment for energy conservation activities                                       1.51                  2.90
               Recurring savings achieved through above activities                                 3.73                  2.47


               Awards and Accolades
               BAL Commercial vehicles manufacturing plant at Waluj and the Motorcycle manufacturing plant at
               Pantnagar received the Special award for TPM achievement from JIPM, Japan. This award is for a plant
               that has achieved a very high level in its practice of TPM methodology.

               With this achievement, Bajaj Auto becomes the only OEM in the auto industry, where all its
               manufacturing plants have achieved the Special award for TPM practice.




70   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Directors’ Report




International Business
Bajaj Auto’s 22% growth in motorcycles and 43% growth in commercial vehicles means that it remains
by far, India’s No.1 exporter of two and three wheelers. It exports to over 79 countries in Latin America,
Africa, South Asia, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Europe. During the year under review, exports
accounted for 40.1% of the Company’s net sales as against 39.3% in FY18. Detailed information on the
International Business is given in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
The Company continued to be a net foreign exchange earner during the year.

Total foreign exchange earned by the Company during the year under review was H 11,434.23 crore,
as compared to H 9,281.46 crore during the previous year.

Total foreign exchange outflow during the year under review was H 973.07 crore, as against
H 673.41 crore during the previous year.

Industrial relations
Industrial Relations with staff and workmen across all the plants, viz. Akurdi, Waluj, Chakan and
Pantnagar, continued to be cordial.

The wage settlements signed for a period of 9 years for Chakan and Akurdi Plants are expiring on
31 March 2019 and 30 June 2019 respectively. The process for signing new settlements for both the
plants has already been initiated and all efforts are being made to complete the process amicably in a
congenial atmosphere.

With the active participation and involvement of all employees, we have been able to inculcate TPM
culture for excellence and continuous improvement across all plants. Plants have received many
awards during the year from Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI)
and other organisations.

Two workmen, one each from Facility Engineering – MCD and Spare Operations at Waluj plant have
been declared winner of Prime Minister’s ‘Shram Veer’ Award for the year 2017.

Various Employee Engagement activities like monthly Kaizen competitions, trekking events,
sports competitions, yoga sessions, signing competitions, appreciation of meritorious students and
felicitation of newly married couple are being organised to inculcate sense of belongingness amongst
the employees across the plants.

Subsidiaries and joint ventures
PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (PT BAI)
Routine business operations of PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia, a 99.25% subsidiary of Bajaj Auto,
remain discontinued.

The plan for PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia was to spearhead the development of KTM and Bajaj partnership
and bring the jointly developed products into Indonesia. To take this further, all the required
manufacturing, import and business licenses have been renewed. Further, studies on the product
acceptability have been conducted, which look favorable.

The business model decided has been to export directly from India to local Indonesian distributor to be
monitored and managed by PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia. Further, the CKD configurations have been
planned and PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia will work with the distributors and take the responsibility of
getting the KTM products in the market ensuring the right quality standards.




                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         71
     Directors’ Report




               Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV,
               Netherlands (BAIH BV)
               Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV is a 100% Netherlands-based subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

               Over the years, through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of € 198.1 million (H 1,219 crore),
               and holds approximately 48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM). Calendar year 2018 has again been a
               record year for KTM, with highest sales in units and again highest turnover in the history of the
               Company. Detailed information on the developments at the subsidiary and KTM AG is provided in the
               Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

               During the year under review, dividend received from BAIH BV amounted to H 94 crore.

               Signing of anti-corruption initiative of
               World Economic Forum (WEF)
               In support of the initiative taken by WEF, with a view to strengthening the efforts to counter bribery
               and corruption, your Company is a signatory to the 'Commitment to anti-corruption' and is supporting
               the 'Partnering Against Corruption-Principles for Countering Bribery' derived from Transparency
               International’s Business Principles. This calls for a commitment to two fundamental actions,
               viz. a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and development of a practical and effective
               implementation programme.

               Adoption of Confederation of
               Indian Industry (CII) Charters
               Your Company, being a member of CII, has adopted the following Codes/Charters:

               1.   CII Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action;
               2.   Model Code of Conduct for Ethical Business practices;
               3.   Charters of Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Collaborative Employee Relations; and
               4.   Charters on Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Contract Labour.

               Extract of Annual Return
               The extract of annual return as provided under sub-section (3) of section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013,
               in the prescribed form MGT-9 is annexed to this Report and also on the company's website
               www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-repors

               Number of meetings of the Board
               There were eight meetings of the Board held during the year. Detailed information is given in the
               Corporate Governance Report.

               Directors’ responsibility statement
               As required under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013,
               directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief, state that-

               l    in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable Accounting Standards had been followed
                    along with proper explanation relating to material departures;

               l    the directors had selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made
                    judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of
                    the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of the
                    Company for that period;




72   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                 Directors’ Report




l   the directors had taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting
    records in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of
    the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;

l   the directors had prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis;

l   the directors had laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and that such
    internal financial controls were adequate and were operating effectively; and

l   the directors had devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable
    laws and that such systems were adequate and were operating effectively.

Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors
under section 143(12)
During the year under review, there were no frauds reported by the auditors to the Audit Committee or
the Board under section 143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013.

Declaration by independent directors
The independent directors have submitted the declaration of independence, as required pursuant
to section 149(7) of the Companies Act, 2013 stating that they meet the criteria of independence as
provided in section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended and Regulation 16 of the SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations’),
as amended.

The Board took on record the declaration and confirmation submitted by the Independent Directors
regarding their meeting the prescribed criteria of independence, after undertaking due assessment of
the veracity of the same as required under Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations.


Directors’ Remuneration Policy and criteria for
matters under section 178
The Board, at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, has revised the commission from H 150,000 to
H 250,000 payable per meeting to all non-executive directors (including independent directors) for
meetings of Board and Committees thereof attended by them from 1 April 2019 onwards as member.

The salient features and changes to the Policy on directors' appointment and remuneration form a part
of the ‘Corporate Governance Report’. The said policy is placed on the Company’s website
www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments
Information regarding loans, guarantees and investments covered under the provisions of section 186
of the Companies Act, 2013 are detailed in the Financial Statements.

Related party transactions
No Related Party Transactions (RPTs) were entered into by the Company during the year, which
attracted the provisions of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013. There being no ‘material’ RPTs as
defined under Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, there are no details to be disclosed in Form AOC-2
in that regard.

During the year 2018-19, pursuant to section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 23 of
Listing Regulations, all RPTs were placed before the Audit Committee for its approval.

Pursuant to Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, the Board, at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, has
revised the policy on materiality of RPTs and on dealing with RPTs inter alia by including clear
threshold limits.

                                                                                   12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        73
     Directors’ Report




               The revised Policy on materiality of RPTs as approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s
               website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

               Material changes and commitments
               There have been no material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Company,
               which have occurred between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.

               Risk Management Policy
               Information on the development and implementation of a Risk Management Policy for the Company
               including identification therein of elements of risk, which in the opinion of the Board may threaten the
               existence of the Company, is given in the Corporate Governance Report.

               Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
               Detailed information on the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy developed and implemented by the
               Company on CSR initiatives taken during the year pursuant to section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013
               is given in the annexed Annual Report on CSR activities.

               Formal annual evaluation of the performance
               of the Board, its Committees, Chairperson and
               Individual Directors
               Information on the manner in which formal annual evaluation has been made by the Board of its own
               performance and that of its committees, chairperson and individual directors is given in the Corporate
               Governance Report.

               Presentation of financial statements
               The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2019 have been disclosed as per
               Division ll of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.

               Indian Accounting Standards, 2015
               The annexed financial statements comply in all material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards
               (Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, Companies (Indian Accounting
               Standards) Rules, 2015 and other relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.

               Consolidated financial statements
               The directors also present the audited consolidated financial statements incorporating the duly audited
               financial statements of the subsidiaries, and as prepared in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013,
               applicable Accounting Standards and Listing Regulations, as prescribed by SEBI.

               Statutory disclosures
               The summary of the key financials of the Company’s subsidiaries (Form AOC-1) is included in this
               Annual Report. A copy of the audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be
               made available to the members of the Company seeking such information at any point of time.

               The audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be kept for inspection by any
               member of the Company at its registered office during business hours. The same are placed on the
               Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

               Details as required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with
               rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,
               as amended, are annexed to this report.




74   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Directors’ Report




Details as required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with
rule 5(2) and 5(3) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,
as amended, which form part of the Directors’ Report, will be made available to any shareholder on
request, as per provisions of section 136(1) of the said Act.

A Cash Flow Statement for the year 2018-19 is attached to the Balance Sheet.

Pursuant to the legislation ‘The Sexual Harassment of Woman at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013', the Company has a Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace.

During the year under review, one complaint was received from one of the employees, which was
investigated and redressed by the Internal Complaints Committee formed under the aforesaid
Act and closed.

There was no other case reported during the year under review under the said Policy.

Directors and Key Managerial Personnel-changes
A. Changes in Directors:
I. Cessation of Directors:
   (a) Manish Kejriwal (DIN 00040055), a non-executive director of the Company, on account of his pre-
       occupation with his business and various interests, resigned as director of the Company from
       the close of office hours on 31 December 2018. The Board recorded its sincere appreciation for
       his valuable contribution during his long association with the Company.

   (b) D. S. Mehta (DIN 00038366) and P Murari (DIN 00020437) have signified their intention not
       to continue as an Independent Director of the Company for another term, due to their other
       priorities, pre-occupations and health reasons. They have ceased to be directors of the Company
       from the close of business hours on 31 March 2019. The Board recorded its sincere appreciation
       for their valuable contribution during their long association with the Company.


II. Appointment/Re-appointment of Directors:
   (a) The Board at its meeting held on 24 October 2018, pursuant to the recommendation of
       Nomination and Remuneration Committee and subject to necessary approval of shareholders,
       appointed Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670) as additional director and Whole-time Director, with
       the designation as Executive Director of the Company for a period of five years with effect from
       1 January 2019.

   (b) The Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, pursuant to the recommendation of
       Nomination and Remuneration Committee, appointed Smt. Lila Poonawalla (DIN 00074392)
       and Pradip Shah (DIN 00066242) as Additional Directors and Independent Directors for a period
       of 5 years with effect from 1 April 2019. Under Regulation 17(1A) of Listing Regulations, consent
       of the Members by way of Special Resolution is sought by the Company in compliance with
       Regulation 17(1A) of Listing Regulations, for continuance of Smt. Lila Poonawalla beyond 16
       September 2019 on account of her attaining the age of 75 years on that date.

   (c) At the aforesaid meeting, the Board taking into account the Report of performance evaluation
       and the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, re-appointed following
       independent directors for a second consecutive term:




                                                                                   12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         75
     Directors’ Report




                         Sr. No.    Name of Independent Director                       Tenure of Second term



                             1.     Nanoo Pamnani (DIN 00053673)*                      Five years w.e.f. 1 April 2019
                            2.      D J Balaji Rao (DIN 00025254)**                    Five years w.e.f. 1 April 2019
                         *Under Regulation 17(1A) of Listing Regulations, consent of the Members by way of Special Resolution is
                         sought by the Company in compliance with Regulation 17(1A) of Listing Regulations, for continuance of Nanoo Pamnani
                         beyond 26 February 2020 on account of his attaining the age of 75 years on that date.
                         **Under Regulation 17(1A) of Listing Regulations, consent of the Members by way of Special Resolution is sought by the
                         Company in compliance with Regulation 17(1A) of Listing Regulations, for continuance of D J Balaji Rao beyond 1 April 2019
                         on account of his having already attained the age of 75 years as on 1 April 2019.


                         Necessary details regarding their appointment and re-appointment as required under the
                         Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, are given in the notice of annual general meeting.
                         The aforesaid appointments are subject to approval of shareholders at the ensuing annual
                         general meeting.


               III. Retirement by Rotation:
                   The independent directors hold office for a fixed term not exceeding five years from the date of their
                   appointment and are not liable to retire by rotation.

                   The Companies Act, 2013 mandates that at least two–thirds of the total number of directors
                   (excluding independent directors) shall be liable to retire by rotation. Accordingly, Sanjiv Bajaj
                   (DIN 00014615) and Pradeep Shrivastava (DIN 07464437), Directors, being the longest in the office
                   amongst the directors liable to retire by rotation, retire from the Board by rotation this year and,
                   being eligible, have offered their candidature for re–appointment.

                   Brief details of Sanjiv Bajaj and Pradeep Shrivastava, Directors, who are seeking re–appointment
                   are given in the notice of annual general meeting.


               B. Change in Key Managerial Personnel:
                   The Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination
                   and Remuneration Committee appointed Soumen Ray as Chief Financial Officer and Key Managerial
                   Personnel of the Company w.e.f. 18 May 2019 in place of Kevin D’sa, 65 years, who after a long
                   distinguished tenure would be ceasing as Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f. closing hours
                   of 17 May 2019.

                   There was no other change in the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel during the year under review.

                   Detailed information on the directors is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.


               Significant and material orders passed by the
               regulators or courts
               During the year under review, there were no significant and material orders passed by the regulators or
               courts or tribunals, which may impact the going concern status of the Company and its operations in future.


               Details of internal financial controls with reference
               to the financial statements
               The Company has documented its internal financial controls considering the essential components of
               various critical processes, physical and operational. This includes its design, implementation and
               maintenance, along with periodical internal review of operational effectiveness and sustenance,
               which are commensurate with the nature of its business and the size and complexity of its operations.




76   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Directors’ Report




This ensures orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
policies, safeguarding of its assets, prevention of errors, accuracy and completeness of the accounting
records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information.

The internal financial controls with reference to the financial statements were adequate and
operating effectively.

Corporate governance
Pursuant to Listing Regulations, a separate chapter titled ‘Corporate Governance’ has been included in
this Annual Report, along with the reports on Management Discussion and Analysis and General
Shareholder Information.

All Board members and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of
Conduct for the year 2018-19. A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director and CEO of
the Company is contained in this Annual Report.

The Managing Director and CFO have certified to the Board with regard to the financial statements and
other matters as required under Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations.

Certificate from the Auditors of the Company regarding compliance of conditions of corporate
governance is annexed to this Report.

Employee stock option scheme
During the year under review, the Company has approved Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) of the Company. The ESOP Scheme is in compliance with the
SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (‘the SBEB Regulations’).

Pursuant to the approval by the shareholders and in-principle approval given by the Stock Exchanges,
the Company can grant upto 5,000,000 options to the eligible employees of the Company under the
BAL-ESOS 2019.

Disclosures pertaining to the ESOP Scheme pursuant to the SBEB Regulations are placed on the
Company’s website www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

Business Responsibility Report
Regulation 34(2) of the Listing Regulations, as amended, inter alia, provides that the annual report of
the top 500 listed entities based on market capitalisation (calculated as on 31 March of every financial
year), shall include a Business Responsibility Report.

Since Bajaj Auto Ltd. is one of the top 500 listed entities, the Company, as in the previous years,
has presented its BR Report for the year 2018-19, which is part of this Annual Report.

As a green initiative, the BR Report has been hosted on the Company’s website
www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

A physical copy of the BR Report will be made available to any shareholder on request.

Secretarial Standards of ICSI
Pursuant to the approval given on 10 April 2015 by the Central Government to the Secretarial
Standards specified by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, the Secretarial Standards on
Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) came into effect from
1 July 2015. The said standards were further amended w.e.f. 1 October 2017. The Company is in
compliance with the same.




                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          77
     Directors’ Report




               Statutory Auditor
               Pursuant to the provisions of section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013, the members at the annual
               general meeting of the Company held on 20 July 2017 appointed S R B C and CO LLP (Firm Registration
               No. 324982E/E300003) as statutory auditors of the Company from the conclusion of Tenth annual
               general meeting till the conclusion of Fifteenth annual general meeting, covering one term of five
               consecutive years.

               The statutory audit report for the year 2018-19 does not contain any qualification, reservation or
               adverse remark or disclaimer made by statutory auditor.

               Secretarial Auditor
               Pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder,
               the Company has re-appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary
               (Membership No.1587, CP No. 572) to undertake the secretarial audit of the Company. Secretarial audit
               report for the year 2018-19 issued by him in the prescribed form MR-3 is annexed to this Report.

               The said secretarial audit report does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark or
               disclaimer made by the Secretarial Auditor.

               In addition to the above and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 8 February 2019, a Report on secretarial
               compliance by Shyamprasad D Limaye for the year ended 31 March 2019 is being submitted to stock
               exchanges. There are no observations, reservations or qualifications in the said Report.

               On behalf of the Board of Directors,




               Rahul Bajaj
               Chairman

               Pune: 17 May 2019




78   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                       Directors’ Report




Annual Report on CSR activities
1. Brief outline of Company’s CSR Policy, including overview of projects or programmes proposed
   to be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR Policy and projects or programmes.


   Introduction
   The vision and philosophy of late Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the
   Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the group. He embodied the concept of
   trusteeship in business and common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and
   transparent functioning.

   Bajaj Group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond
   balance sheets or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business
   and industry make to the lives of people.

   Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the
   vicinity of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
   conservation, infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities.
   For society, however, Bajaj is more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment
   and the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.

   It is this goodwill that has made us “The World’s Favourite Indian”


   Guiding principles
   The Bajaj Group believes that social investments should:

   l   Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
       generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society
       over long periods.
   l   Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
       strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.
   l   Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education
       and productivity.
   l   Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
       to create excellence for self and for the team.
   l   Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it
       has a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.
   l   Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
       lowest rung irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.
   l   Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
       adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.


   CSR Policy
   A detailed CSR Policy was framed by the Company on 14 May 2014, with approvals of the
   CSR Committee and Board of Directors. The Policy, inter alia, covers the following:

   l   Philosophy
   l   Scope
   l   List of CSR activities
   l   Modalities of execution of Projects/Programmes
   l   Implementation through CSR Cell
   l   Monitoring and Assessment of Projects/Programmes

   CSR Policy gives an overview of the projects or programmes, which are undertaken by the Company
   from time to time.

   The CSR Policy is placed on the Company's website www.bajajauto.com/pdf/csr-policy-bal.pdf


                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          79
     Directors’ Report




               2. Composition of the CSR Committee

                   A Committee of the directors, titled ‘Corporate Social Responsibility Committee’, which was
                   constituted by the Board at its meeting held on 28 March 2014, has the following members:

                   Rahul Bajaj, Chairman
                   Rajiv Bajaj
                   Nanoo Pamnani
                   Pradeep Shrivastava

                   During the year under review, the Committee met four times on 20 September 2018,
                   9 October 2018, 19 December 2018, and 22 February 2019.

               3. Average net profit of the Company for last three financial years prior to 2018-19:
                  H 5,559.80 crore

               4. Prescribed CSR Expenditure (2% of amount as in item No. 3): H 111.20 crore.

               5. Details of CSR spent during the financial year:

                   Particulars                                                                              (H In Crore).



                   a. Total amount to be spent:                                                                  111.20
                   b. Amount spent:                                                                              112.32
                   c. Amount unspent, if any (a-b):                                                                  Nil
                   d. Manner in which the amount spent/committed during the financial year:
                      As provided in enclosed Table 1.


               6. In case the Company fails to spend the 2% of the average net profit (INR) of the last three
                  financial years, the reasons for not spending the amount shall be stated in the Board Report.-
                  Not Applicable

                   In addition to what is stated above, Bajaj Group implements many CSR initiatives of substantial
                   value through its Group Charitable Trusts operating at various locations in the country.

                   Major initiatives that continued and/or that were taken up anew by the Bajaj Group through such
                   entities during the year under review are given in another detailed report, which is hosted on the
                   Company's website www.bajajauto.com and a physical copy of this report will be made available to
                   any shareholder on request.

               7. Responsibility statement of the CSR Committee that the implementation and monitoring of CSR
                  Policy is in compliance with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.

                   The CSR Committee confirms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy is in
                   compliance with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.




               Rahul Bajaj                                              Rajiv Bajaj
               Chairman of CSR Committee                                Managing Director and CEO

               Pune: 17 May 2019




80   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
 01                                                                        Directors’ Report




 02                                                  03




 04                                                        05




01. Working with Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation
02. Jalpujan in Bajaj Conservation Project, Aurangabad
03. Paani Foundation (Water Cup 2018) Women in action
04. Aerial view of Bajaj Cattle Camp at Mann, Satara
05. Children at Computer Shiksha Training at Sikar
                                                                12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19     81
     Directors’ Report



               Table 1: Report on manner of expenditure for CSR during the
               financial year ended 31 March 2019

                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)

                                                                                          Location of                     Amount
                                                                                          the project/                spent direct/    Cumulative
                      Name/details of                                                     programme          Amount/    overheads     Expenditure
                Sr.   the implementing   CSR project/activity       Sector in which the   (Local area or       outlay   during the        upto 31
                No.   agency             identified                 project is covered    state/district)   approved           year   March 2019



               1      Kailash            Action for a child      Reducing                 Pan India            15.00          10.00         10.00
                      Satyarthi          friendly world.         inequality (iii)
                      Children's         To provide assistance
                      Foundation         for creating a child-
                                         friendly world through
                                         training, building
                                         capacities and
                                         networking with NGOs
                                         in Maharashtra. It also
                                         proposes to generate
                                         new knowledge base.
               2      Grant Medical      Supporting                 Healthcare (i)        Pune                  7.00           7.00          7.00
                      Foundation,        purchase of Digital
                      Pune (Ruby         PET machine for
                      Hall)              Department of
                                         Nuclear Medicine at
                                         Ruby Hall Clinic
                                         To setup a state-
                                         of-the-art Nuclear
                                         Medicine Department
                                         in hospital campus
                                         that will house a
                                         digital PET scanner
                                         for early diagnosis of
                                         cancer and a digital
                                         SPECT scan machine.
                                         The digital PET scan
                                         machine would be
                                         the first of its kind in
                                         the country. Also to
                                         construct the Nuclear
                                         Medicine Centre
                                         admeasuring about
                                         6500 sq.ft. with its
                                         own resources.
               3      Jankidevi          Integrated Rural and Rural                       5 Districts of        6.50           6.50          6.50
                      Bajaj Gram         Urban Development        Development             Maharashtra
                      Vikas Sanstha      Project                  (x)
                      (JBGVS)            To implement
                                         integrated rural and
                                         urban development
                                         projects in select
                                         villages and urban
                                         areas in its 5
                                         core districts for
                                         particular projects like
                                         sanitation, E-learning
                                         etc. Apart from this,
                                         urban development
                                         activities are being
                                         carried out through
                                         Samaj Seva Kendras.



82   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                     Directors’ Report



Table 1: Report on manner of expenditure for CSR during the
financial year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)

                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)

                                                                       Location of                     Amount
                                                                       the project/                spent direct/    Cumulative
      Name/details of                                                  programme          Amount/    overheads     Expenditure
Sr.   the implementing   CSR project/activity    Sector in which the   (Local area or       outlay   during the        upto 31
No.   agency             identified              project is covered    state/district)   approved          year    March 2019



4     JBGVS              Maharashtra State     Rural                   Maharashtra           6.00           6.00          6.00
                         Drought 2018          Development
                         Supporting            (x)
                         organisations working
                         on in drought relief
                         work The following
                         two activities
                         are proposed for
                         supporting livestock:
                         1. Fodder Bank
                         2. Cattle Camps.
5     Foundation         To restore water        Environment           Nine districts       27.00           5.40          9.45
      For Ecological     resources in            Sustainability        of Rajasthan,
      Security,          water-scarce and        (iv)                  Maharashtra,
      Anand              ecologically degraded                         Karnataka
                         dryland regions.                              and Andhra
                                                                       Pradesh
6     Indian        For construction of          Setting up            Pune                 50.00           5.00         45.00
      Institute     Hall of residence for        Homes and
      of Science    girl students                Hostels for
      Education                                  Women (iii)
      And Research
      (IISER), Pune
7     JBGVS              Integrated rural and    Rural                 Pune,                38.10           5.00          5.00
                         urban development       Development           Aurangabad,
                         project.                (x)                   Wardha,
                                                                       Sikar and
                                                                       Udhamsingh
                                                                       nagar
8     Paani              To provide assistance Environmental           Maharashtra           5.00           5.00          5.00
      Foundation,        to explore other      Sustainability
      Mumbai             environmental issues, (iv)
                         in addition to the
                         core Water Cup, the
                         key to sustainability
                         is restoring the
                         balance of nature.
                         Paani foundation
                         has proposed two
                         additional items that
                         are given below:
                         a) Samruddha Gaon
                         Spardha
                         b) Schools
                         Programme.
9     RTM Nagpur         Nagpur University       Education (ii)        Nagpur               10.00           4.50         10.00
      University         building and
                         Administrative
                         building.




                                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           83
     Directors’ Report



               Table 1: Report on manner of expenditure for CSR during the
               financial year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)

                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)

                                                                                         Location of                     Amount
                                                                                         the project/                spent direct/    Cumulative
                      Name/details of                                                    programme          Amount/    overheads     Expenditure
                Sr.   the implementing   CSR project/activity      Sector in which the   (Local area or       outlay   during the        upto 31
                No.   agency             identified                project is covered    state/district)   approved           year   March 2019



               10     Abhinav            Support for creating Training to      Pune                            4.50           4.35          4.35
                      Bindra             Olympic Champions      promote sports
                      Foundation         and advance medical (vii)
                      Trust              rehabilitation-cum-
                                         high performance
                                         center for sports
                                         development.
                                         To provide assistance
                                         for setting up "Center
                                         for Advanced medical
                                         rehabilitation cum
                                         high performance
                                         center for sport
                                         development".
                                         The center will
                                         undertake Athlete
                                         Development, Regular
                                         and Professional
                                         Training, as well as
                                         have facilities for
                                         Advanced and Speedy
                                         Rehabilitation.
               11     Bharatiya Jain Cattle Relief Camp.           Environment           Aurangabad,           6.00           4.00          4.00
                      Sanghatana     For providing fodder          Sustainability        Maharashtra
                                     and drinking water to         (iv)
                                     6000 animals.
               12     JBGVS-             School Support            Education (ii)        Udhamsingh           16.00           3.00          3.00
                      Udhamsingh         Programme                                       Nagar,
                      Nagar              To support school                               Uttarakhand
                                         improvement by
                                         initiating various
                                         programmes i.e.
                                         i. Infrastructure
                                         Development.
                                         ii. Language Teaching
                                         and Library project.
                                         iii. Any other activity
                                         as may be agreed by
                                         school management
                                         committee.




84   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                  Directors’ Report



        Table 1: Report on manner of expenditure for CSR during the
        financial year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)

                                                                       Location of                     Amount
                                                                       the project/                spent direct/    Cumulative
      Name/details of                                                  programme          Amount/    overheads     Expenditure
Sr.   the implementing   CSR project/activity    Sector in which the   (Local area or       outlay   during the        upto 31
No.   agency             identified              project is covered    state/district)   approved           year   March 2019



13    Prashanti          Upgradation of      Health (i)                Pune                  3.00           2.80          2.80
      Cancer Care        Infrastructure-
      Mission            Replacement of
                         Digital Mammography
                         machine with
                         new machine
                         with advanced
                         specifications.
14    Dilasa             To provide assistance   Environment           20 villages           5.40           2.37          2.40
      Sanstha            to improve the          Sustainability        in Zari and
                         livelihood of farmers   (iv)                  Ralegaon
                         in a cluster of 20                            blocks of
                         villages.                                     Yavatmal
                                                                       district
15    Sri Chaitanya      To provide assistance   Health (i)            Thane                 6.00           2.00          5.00
      Seva Trust         for construction of
                         new building with
                         oncology, super
                         specialty units etc.
16    Others             For different          Environmental          For different       144.33          36.12         66.34
      Through            projects, such as      sustainability         locations in
      Implementing       Water Conservation     (iv), Livelihood       Maharashtra,
      agencies,          Project, promotion of enhancement             Rajasthan,
      such as            livelihood, fostering  (ii),                  Uttarakhand
      JBGVS,BAIF         entrepreneurship,      Employment             and PAN-
      Institute for      sanitation, Education enhancing               India
      Sustainable        for slum and deprived vocation skills
      Livelihood         children, tree         and livelihood
      Development,       plantation, welfare of enhancements
      Bharatiya          armed forces veterans projects (ii),
      Yuva Shakti        etc.                   Education
      Trust, Teach-                             (ii), Health (i),
      to-lead (teach                            welfare of
      for India), Sri                           armed forces
      Aurobindo                                 veterans
      Society etc.                              (vi), Rural
                                                Development
                                                Projects (x) etc.


                                                                             Total (A)                   109.05
         Overhead Expenses (restricted to 5% of total CSR expenditure) (B)                                 3.27
                                                           GRAND TOTAL (A)+(B)                           112.32




                                                                                                            12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                85
     Directors’ Report




               Extract of Annual Return (Form MGT-9)
               As on the financial year ended on 31 March 2019
               [Pursuant to section 92 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12 (1) of the Companies (Management
               and Administration) Rules, 2014]

               I. Registration and other details:
               Corporate Identification Number (CIN)                  L65993PN2007PLC130076
               Registration Date                                      30 April 2007
               Name of the Company                                    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
               Category/sub-category of the Company                   Public Company/Limited by shares
               Address of the Registered office and contact details   Mumbai Pune Road,
                                                                      Akurdi, Pune – 411 035
                                                                      E-mail id: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                      Tel. No: (020) 2747 2851
               Whether listed company                                 Yes (BSE and NSE)
               Name, Address and contact details of the               Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd.
               Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any.                  Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31,
                                                                      Gachibowli Financial District,
                                                                      Nanakramguda, Hyderabad 500 032.

                                                                      Contact Persons:
                                                                      M. S. Madhusudhan
                                                                      Mohd. Mohsinuddin
                                                                      Tel No. : (040) 6716 2222/1562
                                                                      Fax No. : (040) 2300 1153
                                                                      Toll Free No: 1800 345 4001
                                                                      E-mail: mohsin.mohd@karvy.com
                                                                      Website: www.karvyfintech.com



               II. Principal business activities of the Company

               All the business activities contributing 10 % or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated



                       Name and description of                         NIC Code of the            % to total turnover
               Sr. No. main products/services                          product/service            of the Company



                  1      Manufacture of Motorcycles, three-wheelers
                         (including parts thereof)                               3091                        96




               III. Particulars of holding, subsidiary and associate companies

                                                                                                       % of
                                                                              Holding/Subsidiary/      shares Applicable
                Sr. No Name of the company             CIN/GLN                Associate                held   section



                  1      PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia      Company incorporated                                         section
                                                       in Indonesia           Subsidiary                 99.25        2(87)
                         Bajaj Auto International      Company incorporated                                         section
                  2      Holdings BV                   in Netherlands         Subsidiary                100.00        2(87)




86   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
           Directors’ Report




12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19     87
     Directors’ Report



               IV. Shareholding pattern
                   (equity share capital breakup as percentage of total equity)

               i) Category-wise shareholding:

                                                    No. of shares held at the beginning                   No. of shares held at the end
                                                      of the year as on 1 April 2018                    of the year as on 31 March 2019             %
                                                                                                                                                change
                                                                                         % of                                             % of during
                                                                                         total                                            total    the
                 Category of shareholders          Demat      Physical           Total shares          Demat     Physical         Total shares    year



               A. Promoters
                  (1) Indian
                     a) Individual/HUF         12,486,990            –     12,486,990      4.32    12,558,990           –    12,558,990    4.34    0.02
                     b) Central Govt                    –            –               –        –             –           –             –       –       –
                     c) State Govt(s)                   –            –               –        –             –           –             –       –       –
                     d) Bodies Corp.          130,170,992            –    130,170,992     44.98   135,546,042           – 135,546,042     46.84    1.86
                     e) Banks/FI                        –            –               –        –             –           –             –       –       –
                     f) Any other                       –            –               –        –             –           –             –       –       –
                  Sub-Total (A) (1)           142,657,982            –    142,657,982     49.30   148,105,032           – 148,105,032     51.18    1.88
                  (2) Foreign
                     a) NRIs-Individual                 –            –               –        –             –           –             –       –       –
                     b) Others-Individuals              –            –               –        –             –           –             –       –       –
                     c) Bodies Corporate                –            –               –        –             –           –             –       –       –
                     d) Banks/FI                        –            –               –       –              –           –             –      –        –
                     e) Any Other                       –            –               –       –              –           –             –      –        –
                 Sub-Total (A) (2)                      –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –


               Total shareholding of
               Promoter (A)=(A)(1)+(A)(2)     142,657,982            –    142,657,982     49.30   148,105,032           – 148,105,032     51.18    1.88


               B. Public Shareholding
                 (1) Institutions
                     a) Mutual Funds            6,281,978          850      6,282,828      2.17     6,281,716        850      6,282,566    2.17   (0.00)
                     b) Banks/FI                  265,734       19,890        285,624      0.10       320,090      19,890      339,980     0.12    0.02
                     c) Central Govt                    -             -              -        -             -           -             -       -        -
                     d) State Govt(s)                   -             -              -        -             -           -             -       -        -
                     e) Venture Capital
                        Funds                           -             -              -        -             -           -             -       -        -
                     f) Insurance
                         Companies             18,059,728          600     18,060,328      6.24    14,686,261        600     14,686,861    5.08   (1.17)
                     g) FIIs/FPIs              49,767,619        2,300     49,769,919     17.20    45,252,114       2,300    45,254,414   15.64   (1.56)
                     h) Foreign Venture
                        Capital Funds                   -             -              -        -             -           -             -       -        -
                     i) Alternate
                        Investment Fund                 -             -              -        -        37,698           -        37,698    0.01    0.01
                     j) Qualified
                        Institutional Buyer             -             -              -        -            4            -             4       -        -
                     k) Others (specify)                -             -              -        -             -           -             -       -        -
                  Sub-total (B)(1)             74,375,059       23,640     74,398,699     25.71    66,577,883     23,640    66,601,523    23.02   (2.69)


                  (2) Non-Institutions
                     a) Bodies Corp.
                         i) Indian             20,423,945      835,780     21,259,725      7.35    20,836,158    835,780     21,671,938    7.49    0.14
                         ii) Overseas                   -             -              -                      -           -             -       -




88   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                   Directors’ Report



i) Category–wise shareholding: (Contd.)

                                       No. of shares held at the beginning                          No. of shares held at the end
                                         of the year as on 1 April 2018                           of the year as on 31 March 2019                %
                                                                                                                                             change
                                                                                 % of                                                  % of during
                                                                                 total                                                 total    the
    Category of shareholders          Demat      Physical                Total shares           Demat         Physical         Total shares    year



       b) Individuals                      -              -                  -         -                 -           -             -           -
           i) Individual
              shareholders
              holding
              nominal
              share capital
              upto H 1 lakh       12,371,558    1,113,027        13,484,585       4.66      13,455,429         801,545    14,256,974        4.93      0.27
           ii Individual
              shareholders
              holding
              nominal
              share capital in
              excess of
              H 1 lakh            15,735,167 16,394,809          32,129,976      11.10      15,122,790 15,881,832         31,004,622       10.71     (0.39)
       c) Others (specify)
           NBFC Registered
           with RBI                    6,551              -             6,551     0.00           1,551               -         1,551        0.00
           i) Non Resident
              Indians              1,069,937         23,530          1,093,467    0.38       1,390,149          20,230     1,410,379        0.49      0.11
           ii) Overseas
               Corporate
               Bodies                      -           225                225     0.00                   -         225          225         0.00          -
           iii) Foreign
                Nationals               140               -               140     0.00             175               -          175         0.00      0.00
           iv) Clearing
               Members               198,975              -           198,975     0.07       1,671,351               -     1,671,351        0.58      0.51
           v) Trusts               4,057,453              -          4,057,453    1.40       4,540,217               -     4,540,217        1.57      0.17
           vi) Foreign
               Bodies-DR              24,600              -            24,600     0.01          24,600               -        24,600        0.01          -
           vii) IEPF                  54,642              -            54,642     0.02          78,433               -        78,433        0.03      0.01
Sub-total (B)(2)                  53,942,968 18,367,371         72,310,339       24.99      57,120,853 17,539,612        74,660,465        25.80      0.81
Total Public Shareholding
(B)=(B)(1)+ (B)(2)               128,318,027 18,391,011        146,709,038       50.70     123,698,736 17,563,252 141,261,988              48.82     (1.88)
Grand Total (A+B)                270,976,009 18,391,011        289,367,020 100.00          271,803,768 17,563,252 289,367,020 100.00                     –



ii) Shareholding of promoters and promoter group:

                                      Shareholding at the beginning of the year             Shareholding at the end of the year
                                                as on 1 April 2018                                as on 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                       %
                                                       % of total   % of shares                              % of total   % of shares          change in
                                                         shares        pledged/                                shares        pledged/       shareholding
Sr.                                         No. of        of the encumbered to                  No. of          of the encumbered to              during
No. Shareholder's name                     shares      company      total shares               shares        company      total shares          the year



1      Late Anant Bajaj*                    41,464            0.01                 -           41,464             0.01                 –                 –
2      Deepa Bajaj                          21,150            0.01                 -           21,150             0.01                 –                 –
3      Geetika Bajaj                           600            0.00                 -              600             0.00                 –                 –
4      Kiran Bajaj                        118,050             0.04                 -          118,050             0.04                 –                 –
5      Kriti Bajaj                        398,820             0.14                 -          398,820             0.14                 –                 –
6      Kumud Bajaj                        595,118             0.21                 -          595,118             0.21                 –                 –
7      Madhur Bajaj                      1,674,532            0.58                 -        1,674,532             0.58                 –                 –
8      Minal Bajaj                        953,950             0.33                 -        1,025,950             0.35                 –              0.02




                                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                   89
     Directors’ Report



               ii) Shareholding of promoters and promoter Group: (Contd.)

                                                          Shareholding at the beginning of the year                 Shareholding at the end of the year
                                                                    as on 1 April 2018                                    as on 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                   %
                                                                             % of total   % of shares                                % of total   % of shares              change in
                                                                               shares        pledged/                                  shares        pledged/           shareholding
                Sr.                                               No. of        of the encumbered to                     No. of         of the encumbered to                  during
                No. Shareholder's name                           shares      company      total shares                  shares       company      total shares              the year



               9       Neelima Bajaj Swamy                      661,438            0.23                    -           661,438              0.23                    –              –
               10      Nimisha Jaipuria                         389,770            0.13                    -           389,770              0.13                    –              –
               11      Niraj Bajaj                              663,022            0.23                    -           663,022              0.23                    –              –
               12      Niravnayan Bajaj                         901,056            0.31                    -           901,056              0.31                    –              –
               13      Pooja Bajaj                              149,500            0.05                    -           149,500              0.05                    –              –
               14      Rahulkumar Bajaj                       2,780,570            0.96                    -         2,780,570              0.96                    –              –
               15      Rajivnayan Bajaj                         761,000            0.26                    -           767,500              0.27                    –           0.01
               16      Rishabnayan Bajaj                          17,000           0.01                    -            10,500              0.00                    –          (0.01)
               17      Sanjali Bajaj                              25,450           0.01                    -            59,308              0.02                    –           0.01
               18      Sanjivnayan Bajaj                        632,198            0.22                    -           514,724              0.18                    –          (0.04)
               19      Shefali Bajaj                              20,000           0.01                    -            61,308              0.02                    –           0.01
               20      Shekhar Bajaj                               7,220           0.00                    -              7,220             0.00                    –              –
               21      Siddhantnayan Bajaj                        15,000           0.01                    -            57,308              0.02                    –           0.01
               22      Suman Jain                             1,047,008            0.36                    -         1,047,008              0.36                    –              –
               23      Sunaina Kejriwal                         613,074            0.21                    -           613,074              0.21                    –              –
               24      Bachhraj And Company
                       Pvt. Ltd.                              3,711,756            1.28                    -         3,639,756              1.26                    –          (0.02)
               25      Bachhraj Factories Pvt. Ltd.           1,961,174            0.68                    -         1,961,174              0.68                    –              –
               26      Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance
                       Company Ltd.                             125,000            0.04                    -           125,000              0.04                    –              –
               27      Bajaj Finance Ltd.                            150           0.00                    -                150             0.00                    –              –
               28      Bajaj Holdings &
                       Investment Ltd.**                     91,280,000           31.54                    -        96,727,050            33.43                     –           1.89
               29      Bajaj Sevashram Pvt. Ltd.              4,462,720            1.54                    -         4,462,720              1.54                    –              –
               30      Baroda Industries Pvt. Ltd.            1,670,802            0.58                    -         1,670,802              0.58                    –              –
               31      Hercules Hoists Ltd.                     182,590            0.06                    -           182,590              0.06                    –              –
               32      The Hindustan Housing
                       Company Ltd.                               20,800           0.01                    -            20,800              0.01                    –              –
               33      Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.               25,844,400            8.93                    -        25,844,400              8.93                    –              –
               34      Kamalnayan Investment and
                       Trading Pvt. Ltd.                        132,200            0.05                    -           132,200              0.05                    –              –
               35      Madhur Securities Pvt. Ltd.                79,400           0.03                    -            79,400              0.03                    –              –
               36      Niraj Holdings Pvt. Ltd.                   19,600           0.01                    -            19,600              0.01                    –              –
               37      Rahul Securities Pvt. Ltd.               270,600            0.09                    -           270,600              0.09                    –              –
               38      Rupa Equities Pvt. Ltd.                  286,800            0.10                    -           286,800              0.10                    –              –
               39      Sanraj Nayan Investments
                       Pvt. Ltd.                                  60,000           0.02                    -            60,000              0.02                    –              –
               40      Shekhar Holdings Pvt. Ltd.                 63,000           0.02                    -            63,000              0.02                    –              –
                       Total                                  142,657,982          49.30                   –         148,105,032           51.18                    –            1.88
               Note:      Includes shares held in other capacities, as applicable
                       * Anant Bajaj, part of the promoter group expired on 10 August 2018. 41,464 shares (0.01%) held by him are in the process of transmission.
                       ** Includes 615,142 shares (0.21%) purchased by BHIL on 28 March 2019 which got credited to its demat account on 2 April 2019




90   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                              Directors’ Report



iii) Change in Promoters’ and promoter group shareholding

                                            Shareholding at the
                                           beginning of the year           Cumulative shareholding
                                            (As on 1 April 2018)              during the year
                                                          % of total                       % of total
                                              No. of   shares of the           No. of   shares of the
Sr. No. Particulars                          shares       Company             shares       Company



        At the beginning of the year
        1 April 2018                     142,657,982          49.30
        Date-wise Increase/(decrease)


  1     Bajaj Holdings and
        Investment Ltd.
        15/02/2019-Market Purchase          980,684                0.34   143,638,666          49.64
        22/02/2019-Market Purchase          479,614                0.17   144,118,280          49.80
        01/03/2019-Market Purchase             2,022               0.00   144,120,302          49.81
        08/03/2019-Market Purchase          993,188                0.34   145,113,490          50.15
        15/03/2019-Market Purchase          624,437                0.22   145,737,927          50.36
        22/03/2019-Market Purchase          813,105                0.28   146,551,032          50.65
        28/03/2019-Market Purchase          615,142                0.21   147,166,174          50.86
        29/03/2019-Market Purchase          938,858                0.32   148,105,032          51.18


  2     Rajivnayan Bajaj
        24/08/2018-Purchase                    6,500               0.00   148,111,532          51.18


  3     Sanjivnayan Bajaj
        08/02/2019-Gift Given              (117,474)          (0.04)      147,994,058          51.14


  4     Sanjali Bajaj
        08/02/2019-Gift Received             33,858                0.01   148,027,916          51.16


  5     Shefali Bajaj
        08/02/2019-Gift Received             41,308                0.01   148,069,224          51.17


  6     Rishabnayan Bajaj
        17/08/2018-Sale                      (6,500)          (0.00)      148,062,724          51.17


  7     Siddhantnayan Bajaj
        08/02/2019-Gift Received             42,308                0.01   148,105,032          51.18


  8     Minal Bajaj
        12/04/2018-Market Purchase           72,000                0.02   148,177,032          51.21


  9     Bachhraj and Company Pvt. Ltd.
        12/04/2018-Market Sale              (72,000)          (0.02)      148,105,032          51.18


        At the end of the year
        31 March 2019                                                     148,105,032          51.18


                                                                                12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        91
     Directors’ Report




               iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
               holders of GDRs and ADRs)

                                                            Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                           beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                          % of total                           % of total
                                                             No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
                Sr. No. Name of shareholders                shares        Company                shares        Company



                  1      Life Insurance Corporation
                         of India
                         At the beginning of the year
                         1 April 2018                    17,200,152                5.94
                         Date-wise Increase/(decrease)
                         06-04-2018-Sale                  (230,338)            (0.08)         16,969,814            5.86
                         13-04-2018-Sale                  (442,835)            (0.15)         16,526,979            5.71
                         20-04-2018-Sale                  (326,827)            (0.11)         16,200,152            5.60
                         11-05-2018-Sale                  (193,354)            (0.07)         16,006,798            5.53
                         18-05-2018-Sale                  (127,915)            (0.04)         15,878,883            5.49
                         25-05-2018-Sale                   (73,637)            (0.03)         15,805,246            5.46
                         01-06-2018-Sale                   (84,581)            (0.03)         15,720,665            5.43
                         08-06-2018-Sale                  (704,306)            (0.24)         15,016,359            5.19
                         15-06-2018-Sale                  (695,911)            (0.24)         14,320,448            4.95
                         22-06-2018-Sale                 (1,023,497)           (0.35)         13,296,951            4.60
                         29-06-2018-Sale                  (302,612)            (0.10)         12,994,339            4.49
                         06-07-2018-Sale                  (270,246)            (0.09)         12,724,093            4.40
                         13-07-2018-Sale                  (787,702)            (0.27)         11,936,391            4.13
                         20-07-2018-Sale                  (664,598)            (0.23)         11,271,793            3.90
                         27-07-2018-Sale                   (83,670)            (0.03)         11,188,123            3.87
                         03-08-2018-Purchase                  1,000                0.00       11,189,123            3.87
                         10-08-2018-Purchase                  1,340                0.00       11,190,463            3.87
                         17-08-2018-Purchase                    200                0.00       11,190,663            3.87
                         31-08-2018-Purchase                    800                0.00       11,191,463            3.87
                         18-01-2019-Purchase                158,057                0.05       11,349,520            3.92
                         25-01-2019-Purchase                159,905                0.06       11,509,425            3.98
                         01-02-2019-Purchase                287,693                0.10       11,797,118            4.08
                         08-02-2019-Purchase                131,558                0.05       11,928,676            4.12
                         15-02-2019-Purchase                166,823                0.06       12,095,499            4.18
                         22-02-2019-Purchase                184,480                0.06       12,279,979            4.24
                         01-03-2019-Purchase                242,689                0.08       12,522,668            4.33
                         08-03-2019-Purchase                260,524                0.09       12,783,192            4.42
                         15-03-2019-Purchase                250,045                0.09       13,033,237            4.50
                         22-03-2019-Purchase                140,277                0.05       13,173,514            4.55
                         29-03-2019-Purchase                255,815                0.09       13,429,329            4.64
                         At the end of the year
                         31 March 2019                                                        13,429,329            4.64




92   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                               Directors’ Report




iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                         Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                        beginning of the year                     the year
                                                       % of total                           % of total
                                          No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
Sr. No. Name of shareholders             shares        Company                shares        Company



  2    Jaya Hind Industries Ltd.
       At the beginning
       of the year 1 April 2018        9,498,070                3.28
       Date-wise Increase/(decrease)
       24-10-2018 Amalgamation          200,290                 0.07        9,698,360            3.35
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2019                                                        9,698,360            3.35


  3    Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.
       At the beginning and at the
       end of the year-No change
       during the year ended
       31 March 2019                   6,774,072                2.34        6,774,072            2.34


  4    Government Pension
       Fund Global
       At the beginning of the year
       1 April 2018                    4,280,545                1.48
       Date-wise Increase/(decrease)
       08-06-2018-Sale                  (78,743)            (0.03)          4,201,802            1.45
       15-06-2018-Sale                  (42,880)            (0.01)          4,158,922            1.44
       22-06-2018-Purchase              468,833                 0.16        4,627,755            1.60
       29-06-2018-Sale                     (261)            (0.00)          4,627,494            1.60
       06-07-2018-Sale                  (82,700)            (0.03)          4,544,794            1.57
       13-07-2018-Purchase               35,481                 0.01        4,580,275            1.58
       27-07-2018-Sale                  (29,037)            (0.01)          4,551,238            1.57
       31-08-2018-Sale                 (100,000)            (0.03)          4,451,238            1.54
       07-09-2018-Sale                  (41,690)            (0.01)          4,409,548            1.52
       12-10-2018-Sale                  (19,000)            (0.01)          4,390,548            1.52
       19-10-2018-Sale                  (86,914)            (0.03)          4,303,634            1.49
       26-10-2018-Sale                  (50,000)            (0.02)          4,253,634            1.47
       02-11-2018-Sale                  (91,906)            (0.03)          4,161,728            1.44
       09-11-2018-Sale                  (36,524)            (0.01)          4,125,204            1.43
       16-11-2018-Sale                 (117,743)            (0.04)          4,007,461            1.38
       01-03-2019-Purchase              126,342                 0.04        4,133,803            1.43
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2019                                                        4,133,803            1.43




                                                                                 12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        93
     Directors’ Report




               iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
               holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                                           Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                          beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                         % of total                           % of total
                                                            No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
                Sr. No. Name of shareholders               shares        Company                shares        Company



                  5      Niraj Bajaj (as trustee of
                         Yamuna Trust)
                         At the beginning and at the
                         end of the year-No change
                         during the year ended
                         31 March 2019                   3,659,916                1.26        3,659,916            1.26


                  6      SBI-ETF SENSEX
                         At the beginning of
                         the year 1 April 2018           1,566,571                0.54
                         Date-wise Increase/(decrease)
                         06-04-2018-Purchase               14,112                 0.00        1,580,683            0.55
                         06-04-2018-Sale                  (82,698)            (0.03)          1,497,985            0.52
                         13-04-2018-Purchase                3,735                 0.00        1,501,720            0.52
                         20-04-2018-Purchase               11,931                 0.00        1,513,651            0.52
                         27-04-2018-Purchase               14,690                 0.01        1,528,341            0.53
                         04-05-2018-Purchase               10,760                 0.00        1,539,101            0.53
                         11-05-2018-Purchase               14,678                 0.01        1,553,779            0.54
                         18-05-2018-Purchase               14,621                 0.01        1,568,400            0.54
                         25-05-2018-Purchase                9,769                 0.00        1,578,169            0.55
                         01-06-2018-Purchase               10,612                 0.00        1,588,781            0.55
                         08-06-2018-Purchase               15,832                 0.01        1,604,613            0.55
                         15-06-2018-Purchase                9,056                 0.00        1,613,669            0.56
                         22-06-2018-Purchase                6,573                 0.00        1,620,242            0.56
                         22-06-2018-Sale                   (1,398)            (0.00)          1,618,844            0.56
                         29-06-2018-Purchase                9,267                 0.00        1,628,111            0.56
                         29-06-2018-Sale                   (1,175)            (0.00)          1,626,936            0.56
                         06-07-2018-Purchase               10,102                 0.00        1,637,038            0.57
                         13-07-2018-Purchase               11,400                 0.00        1,648,438            0.57
                         13-07-2018-Sale                     (163)            (0.00)          1,648,275            0.57
                         20-07-2018-Purchase                9,308                 0.00        1,657,583            0.57
                         27-07-2018-Purchase                9,313                 0.00        1,666,896            0.58
                         27-07-2018-Sale                      (18)            (0.00)          1,666,878            0.58
                         03-08-2018-Purchase                4,864                 0.00        1,671,742            0.58
                         03-08-2018-Sale                     (226)            (0.00)          1,671,516            0.58
                         10-08-2018-Purchase               12,788                 0.00        1,684,304            0.58
                         17-08-2018-Purchase                4,515                 0.00        1,688,819            0.58
                         24-08-2018-Purchase               12,125                 0.00        1,700,944            0.59
                         31-08-2018-Purchase               22,569                 0.01        1,723,513            0.60
                         31-08-2018-Sale                     (124)            (0.00)          1,723,389            0.60



94   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
           Directors’ Report




12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19     95
     Directors’ Report




               iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
               holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                                      Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                     beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                    % of total                           % of total
                                                       No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
                Sr. No. Name of shareholders          shares        Company                shares        Company



                         07-09-2018-Purchase          18,107                 0.01        1,741,496            0.60
                         07-09-2018-Sale                 (13)            (0.00)          1,741,483            0.60
                         14-09-2018-Purchase         338,137                 0.12        2,079,620            0.72
                         14-09-2018-Sale                (383)            (0.00)          2,079,237            0.72
                         21-09-2018-Purchase          91,695                 0.03        2,170,932            0.75
                         28-09-2018-Purchase              11                 0.00        2,170,943            0.75
                         28-09-2018-Sale              (3,437)            (0.00)          2,167,506            0.75
                         05-10-2018-Purchase         319,777                 0.11        2,487,283            0.86
                         12-10-2018-Purchase         105,780                 0.04        2,593,063            0.90
                         19-10-2018-Purchase           7,181                 0.00        2,600,244            0.90
                         26-10-2018-Purchase          52,211                 0.02        2,652,455            0.92
                         02-11-2018-Purchase          14,071                 0.00        2,666,526            0.92
                         02-11-2018-Sale                  (1)            (0.00)          2,666,525            0.92
                         09-11-2018-Purchase           8,850                 0.00        2,675,375            0.92
                         16-11-2018-Purchase          14,602                 0.01        2,689,977            0.93
                         16-11-2018-Sale                (119)            (0.00)          2,689,858            0.93
                         23-11-2018-Purchase           8,424                 0.00        2,698,282            0.93
                         30-11-2018-Purchase           6,590                 0.00        2,704,872            0.93
                         07-12-2018-Purchase             808                 0.00        2,705,680            0.94
                         07-12-2018-Sale              (1,985)            (0.00)          2,703,695            0.93
                         14-12-2018-Purchase           5,131                 0.00        2,708,826            0.94
                         14-12-2018-Sale             (10,652)            (0.00)          2,698,174            0.93
                         21-12-2018-Purchase           9,783                 0.00        2,707,957            0.94
                         21-12-2018-Sale              (1,412)            (0.00)          2,706,545            0.94
                         28-12-2018-Purchase           5,626                 0.00        2,712,171            0.94
                         28-12-2018-Sale              (4,989)            (0.00)          2,707,182            0.94
                         31-12-2018-Purchase           6,614                 0.00        2,713,796            0.94
                         04-01-2019-Purchase          20,583                 0.01        2,734,379            0.94
                         04-01-2019-Sale                 (63)            (0.00)          2,734,316            0.94
                         11-01-2019-Purchase          24,919                 0.01        2,759,235            0.95
                         11-01-2019-Sale                (197)            (0.00)          2,759,038            0.95
                         18-01-2019-Purchase          18,104                 0.01        2,777,142            0.96
                         18-01-2019-Sale                 (65)            (0.00)          2,777,077            0.96
                         25-01-2019-Purchase          19,785                 0.01        2,796,862            0.97
                         25-01-2019-Sale                 (18)            (0.00)          2,796,844            0.97
                         01-02-2019-Purchase          21,014                 0.01        2,817,858            0.97
                         08-02-2019-Purchase          18,332                 0.01        2,836,190            0.98
                         15-02-2019-Purchase          11,494                 0.00        2,847,684            0.98
                         15-02-2019-Sale                 (35)            (0.00)          2,847,649            0.98


96   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                 Directors’ Report




iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                           Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                          beginning of the year                     the year
                                                         % of total                           % of total
                                            No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
Sr. No. Name of shareholders               shares        Company                shares        Company



       22-02-2019-Purchase                  8,746                 0.00        2,856,395            0.99
       22-02-2019-Sale                       (164)            (0.00)          2,856,231            0.99
       01-03-2019-Purchase                  7,575                 0.00        2,863,806            0.99
       01-03-2019-Sale                    (32,543)            (0.01)          2,831,263            0.98
       08-03-2019-Purchase                  6,506                 0.00        2,837,769            0.98
       08-03-2019-Sale                    (32,383)            (0.01)          2,805,386            0.97
       15-03-2019-Purchase                  8,876                 0.00        2,814,262            0.97
       15-03-2019-Sale                   (369,196)            (0.13)          2,445,066            0.84
       22-03-2019-Purchase                 21,230                 0.01        2,466,296            0.85
       22-03-2019-Sale                        (31)            (0.00)          2,466,265            0.85
       29-03-2019-Purchase                  6,074                 0.00        2,472,339            0.85
       29-03-2019-Sale                   (288,085)            (0.10)          2,184,254            0.75
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2019                                                          2,184,254            0.75


  7    Niraj Bajaj (as trustee of
       Narmada Trust)
       At the beginning and at the end
       of the year-No change during
       the year ended 31 March 2019      2,184,150                0.75        2,184,150            0.75


  8    Lazard Emerging Markets
       Equity Portfolio
       At the beginning of the year
       1 April 2018                      2,552,965                0.88
       Date-wise Increase/(decrease)
       20-04-2018-Sale                    (53,723)            (0.02)          2,499,242            0.86
       01-06-2018-Sale                    (36,556)            (0.01)          2,462,686            0.85
       22-06-2018-Sale                    (88,789)            (0.03)          2,373,897            0.82
       31-08-2018-Sale                    (98,241)            (0.03)          2,275,656            0.79
       05-10-2018-Sale                    (71,069)            (0.02)          2,204,587            0.76
       21-12-2018-Sale                    (79,714)            (0.03)          2,124,873            0.73
       29-03-2019-Sale                    (15,115)            (0.01)          2,109,758            0.73
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2019                                                          2,109,758            0.73


  9    Amansa Holdings Pvt. Ltd.
       At the beginning of the year
       1 April 2018                              –                  –
       Date-wise Increase/(decrease)
       24-08-2018-Purchase                312,606                 0.11          312,606            0.11


                                                                                   12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        97
     Directors’ Report




               iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
               holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                                          Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                         beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                        % of total                           % of total
                                                           No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
                Sr. No. Name of shareholders              shares        Company                shares        Company



                         31-08-2018-Purchase             171,487                 0.06          484,093            0.17
                         07-09-2018-Purchase             202,755                 0.07          686,848            0.24
                         14-09-2018-Purchase              34,263                 0.01          721,111            0.25
                         28-09-2018-Purchase             377,067                 0.13        1,098,178            0.38
                         05-10-2018-Purchase              27,219                 0.01        1,125,397            0.39
                         12-10-2018-Purchase             436,313                 0.15        1,561,710            0.54
                         26-10-2018-Purchase              95,500                 0.03        1,657,210            0.57
                         02-11-2018-Purchase             101,430                 0.04        1,758,640            0.61
                         01-02-2019-Purchase             181,979                 0.06        1,940,619            0.67
                         08-02-2019-Purchase               7,093                 0.00        1,947,712            0.67
                         At the end of the year
                         31 March 2019                                                       1,947,712            0.67


                  10     Tata Mutual Fund-
                         Tata Equity P/E Fund
                         At the beginning of the year
                         1 April 2018                    559,587                 0.19
                         Date-wise Increase/(decrease)
                         06-04-2018-Purchase              27,100                 0.01          586,687            0.20
                         06-04-2018-Sale                      (5)            (0.00)            586,682            0.20
                         13-04-2018-Purchase              45,000                 0.02          631,682            0.22
                         20-04-2018-Purchase               2,000                 0.00          633,682            0.22
                         27-04-2018-Purchase              90,000                 0.03          723,682            0.25
                         04-05-2018-Purchase              20,000                 0.01          743,682            0.26
                         04-05-2018-Sale                      (4)            (0.00)            743,678            0.26
                         11-05-2018-Purchase              31,500                 0.01          775,178            0.27
                         18-05-2018-Purchase              30,000                 0.01          805,178            0.28
                         25-05-2018-Purchase              76,311                 0.03          881,489            0.30
                         01-06-2018-Purchase              20,000                 0.01          901,489            0.31
                         08-06-2018-Sale                 (45,500)            (0.02)            855,989            0.30
                         15-06-2018-Purchase              73,000                 0.03          928,989            0.32
                         22-06-2018-Purchase                    4                0.00          928,993            0.32
                         29-06-2018-Purchase              55,504                 0.02          984,497            0.34
                         06-07-2018-Sale                      (5)            (0.00)            984,492            0.34
                         13-07-2018-Purchase             305,500                 0.11        1,289,992            0.45
                         13-07-2018-Sale                 (90,000)            (0.03)          1,199,992            0.41
                         20-07-2018-Purchase              85,005                 0.03        1,284,997            0.44
                         27-07-2018-Purchase             173,000                 0.06        1,457,997            0.50




98   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                             Directors’ Report




iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                       Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                      beginning of the year                     the year
                                                     % of total                           % of total
                                        No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
Sr. No. Name of shareholders           shares        Company                shares        Company



       27-07-2018-Sale                 (2,300)            (0.00)          1,455,697            0.50
       03-08-2018-Purchase            109,011                 0.04        1,564,708            0.54
       03-08-2018-Sale                     (3)            (0.00)          1,564,705            0.54
       10-08-2018-Sale                 (2,654)            (0.00)          1,562,051            0.54
       31-08-2018-Purchase            117,000                 0.04        1,679,051            0.58
       07-09-2018-Purchase             42,003                 0.01        1,721,054            0.59
       14-09-2018-Purchase             90,000                 0.03        1,811,054            0.63
       14-09-2018-Sale                     (9)            (0.00)          1,811,045            0.63
       21-09-2018-Purchase                   4                0.00        1,811,049            0.63
       28-09-2018-Purchase                   8                0.00        1,811,057            0.63
       05-10-2018-Purchase             50,006                 0.02        1,861,063            0.64
       12-10-2018-Purchase             15,000                 0.01        1,876,063            0.65
       19-10-2018-Purchase                 11                 0.00        1,876,074            0.65
       26-10-2018-Purchase                 95                 0.00        1,876,169            0.65
       02-11-2018-Purchase             15,043                 0.01        1,891,212            0.65
       30-11-2018-Purchase             50,000                 0.02        1,941,212            0.67
       07-12-2018-Purchase            150,012                 0.05        2,091,224            0.72
       14-12-2018-Purchase             33,195                 0.01        2,124,419            0.73
       21-12-2018-Purchase             35,000                 0.01        2,159,419            0.75
       28-12-2018-Purchase                   6                0.00        2,159,425            0.75
       04-01-2019-Sale                    (18)            (0.00)          2,159,407            0.75
       11-01-2019-Sale                     (3)            (0.00)          2,159,404            0.75
       25-01-2019-Purchase              7,000                 0.00        2,166,404            0.75
       01-02-2019-Purchase                 10                 0.00        2,166,414            0.75
       15-02-2019-Sale                    (22)            (0.00)          2,166,392            0.75
       01-03-2019-Purchase              1,648                 0.00        2,168,040            0.75
       08-03-2019-Purchase                   4                0.00        2,168,044            0.75
       15-03-2019-Sale               (250,773)            (0.09)          1,917,271            0.66
       22-03-2019-Sale                    (23)            (0.00)          1,917,248            0.66
       29-03-2019-Purchase                765                 0.00        1,918,013            0.66
       29-03-2019-Sale                (80,000)            (0.03)          1,838,013            0.64
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2019                                                      1,838,013            0.64




                                                                               12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        99
      Directors’ Report



                v) Shareholding of directors and key managerial personnel:

                                                                     Shareholding at the        Cumulative shareholding
                                                                    beginning of the year          during the year
                                                                       No. of     % of total         No. of    % of total
                Sr. No Particulars                                    shares        shares          shares       shares



                   1      Rahul Bajaj
                          At the beginning of the year and at the
                          end of the year-No change during the
                          year ended 31-3-2019                      2,780,570           0.96      2,780,570         0.96


                   2      Madhur Bajaj
                          At the beginning of the year and at the
                          end of the year-No change during the
                          year ended 31-3-2019                      1,674,532           0.58      1,674,532         0.58


                   3      Rajiv Bajaj
                          At the beginning of the year 1-04-2018      761,000           0.26
                          24-08-2018 Purchase                           6,500           0.00
                          At the end of the year 31-3-2019            767,500           0.27       767,500          0.27


                   4      Sanjiv Bajaj
                          At the beginning of the year 1-04-2018      632,198           0.22
                          08-02-2019 Sale                           (117,474)         (0.04)
                          At the end of the year 31-3-2019            514,724           0.18       514,724          0.18


                   5      D S Mehta
                          At the beginning of the year and at the
                          end of the year-No change during the
                          year ended 31-3-2019                          9,980           0.00          9,980         0.00


                   6      Shekhar Bajaj
                          At the beginning of the year and at the
                          end of the year-No change during the
                          year ended 31-3-2019                          7,220           0.00          7,220         0.00


                   7      Niraj Bajaj
                          At the beginning of the year and at the
                          end of the year-No change during the
                          year ended 31-3-2019                        663,022           0.23       663,022          0.23


                   8      Pradeep Shrivastava
                          At the beginning of the year and at the
                          end of the year-No change during the
                          year ended 31-3-2019                             75           0.00            75          0.00


                   9      Dr. Naushad Forbes
                          At the beginning of the year 1-04-2018            –               –
                          06-09-2018 Purchase                           3,500           0.00
                          At the end of the year 31-3-2019              3,500           0.00          3,500         0.00




100   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
           Directors’ Report




12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19     101
      Directors’ Report



                v) Shareholding of directors and key managerial personnel: (Contd.)

                                                                                  Shareholding at the               Cumulative shareholding
                                                                                 beginning of the year                 during the year
                                                                                      No. of        % of total             No. of           % of total
                Sr. No Particulars                                                   shares           shares              shares              shares



                  10           Kevin D'sa (CFO)
                               At the beginning of the year 1-04-2018                  3,620               0.00
                               23-05-2018 Market Purchase                                500               0.00
                               26-07-2018 Market Purchase                                500               0.00
                               At the end of the year 31-3-2019                        4,620               0.00             4,620                0.00


                Note: (1) Shareholding of all the other Directors-NIL.
                       (2) Dr. J Sridhar (Company Secretary) does not hold any shares in the company in his name as a sole/first holder.


                V. Indebtedness
                Indebtedness of the Company including outstanding/accrued but not due for payment

                                                                                                                                                 (In H)

                                                                 Secured
                                                                    loans
                Sr.                                             excluding                                                                   Total
                No.       Particulars                            deposits          Unsecured loans                Deposits          indebtedness



                  A       Indebtedness at
                          the beginning of the
                          financial year
                          i      Principal Amount                         –            1,207,659,001                        –       1,207,659,001
                          ii     Interest due but not paid                –                            –                    –                        –
                          iii Interest accrued
                              but not due                                 –                            –                    –                        –
                          Total (i+ii+iii)                                –           1,207,659,001                         –       1,207,659,001
                  B       Change in Indebtedness
                          during the financial year
                          * Addition                                      –                37,564,483                       –              37,564,483
                          * Reduction                                     –                            –                    –                        –
                          Net Change                                      –               37,564,483                        –          37,564,483
                  C       Indebtedness at the
                          end of the financial
                          year 31 March 2018
                          i      Principal Amount                         –            1,245,223,484                        –       1,245,223,484
                          ii     Interest due but not paid                –                            –                    –                        –
                          iii Interest accrued
                              but not due                                 –                            –                    –                        –
                          Total (i+ii+iii)                                –           1,245,223,484                         –       1,245,223,484




102   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                             Directors’ Report




VI. Remuneration of the directors and key managerial personnel

A. Remuneration to Managing Director (MD), whole-time directors (WTD)
   and/or manager
                                                                                                                                (In H)
                                                                                              Pradeep         Rakesh
                                                        Rajiv Bajaj      Rahul Bajaj       Shrivastava        Sharma
Sr. No. Particulars of remuneration                           (MD)       (Chairman)               (ED)           (ED)     Total amount



  1      Gross Salary
        a. Salary as per provisions contained
           in section 17(1) of the
           Income-tax Act, 1961                         71,678,875       23,437,500         60,224,281      49,685,841     205,026,497
         b. Value of perquisites
            under section17(2) of
            Income-tax Act, 1961                        37,123,435       18,399,604          2,569,389       2,064,093      60,156,521
         c. Profits in lieu of salary
            under section 17(3)
            Income-tax Act, 1961                                 –                –                 –               –                 –
  2      Stock Option                                            –                –                 –               –                 –
  3      Sweat Equity                                            –                –                 –               –                 –
  4      Commission                                                                                                                   –
        - as % of profit                                         –                –                 –               –                 –
        - others                                       200,169,000        67,500,000                –               –      267,669,000
  5      Others, please specify                                                                                                       –
         Contribution to PF etc.                        14,130,730         4,885,597         3,745,779       3,039,701      25,801,807
        Total (A)                                     323,102,040       114,222,701        66,539,449       54,789,635    558,653,825
        Ceiling as per the Act                                                                                           6,760,700,000

Notes: Salary and perquisites include all elements of remuneration i.e. salary, allowances and benefits. No bonus, pension and
performance linked incentive is paid to any of the directors, except Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director. The Company has not
issued any stock option to any of the directors. The term of Managing Director/whole-time Directors does not exceed five years.
Appointment of Managing Director/whole-time Director is governed by a service contract for a period of five years and notice period
is of ninety days and is in compliance with the applicable provision of the companies Act, 2013.



B. Remuneration to other directors
                                                                                                                                (In H)

                                                                                                         Others,
Sr.                                             Fee for attending Board/                                  please
No.      Name                                       Committee meetings            Commission             Specify               Total



  1     Independent Directors
        1. D S Mehta                                                  400,000             600,000              -          1,000,000
        2. D J Balaji Rao                                         1,800,000             2,700,000              -          4,500,000
        3. Nanoo Pamnani                                          1,300,000             4,950,000              -          6,250,000
        4. P Murari                                                   400,000             600,000              -          1,000,000
        5. Dr. Gita Piramal                                       1,700,000             2,550,000              -          4,250,000
        6. Dr. Naushad Forbes                                     1,500,000             2,250,000              -          3,750,000
        7. Dr. Omkar Goswami                                          800,000           1,200,000              -          2,000,000
        8. Anami N. Roy                                               800,000           1,200,000              -          2,000,000
        TOTAL (B)(1)                                             8,700,000             16,050,000              -         24,750,000




                                                                                                            12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           103
      Directors’ Report



                B. Remuneration to other directors (Contd.)

                                                                                                                                             (In H)

                                                                                                                       Others,
                Sr.                                              Fee for attending Board/                               please
                No.       Name                                       Committee meetings               Commission       Specify              Total



                  2       Other Non-executive
                          Directors
                          1. Sanjiv Bajaj                                              800,000            1,200,000          -         2,000,000
                          2. Shekhar Bajaj                                             600,000              900,000          -         1,500,000
                          3. Manish Kejriwal                                           400,000              600,000          -         1,000,000
                          4. Niraj Bajaj                                               800,000            1,200,000          -         2,000,000
                          5. Madhur Bajaj                                              800,000            1,200,000          -         2,000,000
                          TOTAL (B)(2)                                              3,400,000            5,100,000           -         8,500,000
                          TOTAL (B)(1) + (B)(2)                                    12,100,000           21,150,000           -        33,250,000
                          Overall Ceiling as per the Act                                                                           7,436,800,000
                Note: Overall ceiling as per Act is not applicable to Sitting fees paid to non-executive directors.



                C. Remuneration to key managerial personnel other than MD/Manager/WTD
                                                                                                                                             (In H)

                Sr. No.     Particulars of remuneration                                               Dr. J Sridhar (CS)         Kevin D'sa (CFO)



                    1       Gross Salary
                            a. Salary as per provisions contained in
                               section 17(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961                                       15,283,498             34,164,954
                            b. Value of perquisites under
                               section 17(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961                                              596,835              1,425,639
                            c. Profits in lieu of salary under
                               section 17(3) Income-tax Act, 1961                                                      –                         –
                    2       Stock Option                                                                               –                         –
                    3       Sweat Equity                                                                               –                         –
                    4       Commission
                            -    as % of profit                                                                        –                         –
                            -    others                                                                                –                         –
                    5       Others, please specify
                            -    Contribution to PF etc.                                                        1,077,516              1,934,557
                            Total                                                                             16,957,849              37,525,150



                VII. Penalties/punishment/compounding of offences:

                During the year 2018-19, there were no penalties/punishment/compounding of offences under the
                Companies Act, 2013.




104   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                               Directors’ Report




Annexure to Directors' Report
Remuneration Details under Rule 5 (1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
Personnel) Rules, 2014 (as amended) for the year ended 31 March 2019

                                                                                                                  Ratio of
                                                                                                         Remuneration of
                                                                                                       director to Median
                                                                                                         Remuneration of                      % increase in the
Sr. No.       Name of Director/KMP                                                                            employees                          financial year


   (A)        Whole-time directors/Managerial Personnel
              Rahul Bajaj-Chairman                                                                                        174.92                                   (1.37)
              Rajiv Bajaj-Managing Director and CEO                                                                       494.80                                   14.08
              Pradeep Shrivastava-Executive Director                                                                      101.90                                   57.96
              Rakesh Sharma-Executive Director 1                                                                            83.90                                    NA
              Whole-time Directors in aggregate                                                                                                                    26.63
   (B)        Non-executive directors2
              Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                    1.84                                  0.00
              Sanjiv Bajaj                                                                                                    1.84                                  0.00
              D S Mehta                                                                                                       0.92                             (33.33)
              Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                   1.38                             (14.29)
              D J Balaji Rao                                                                                                  4.13                                 20.00
              Nanoo Pamnani3                                                                                                  7.58                                 35.62
              Manish Kejriwal 4                                                                                               0.92                             (42.86)
              P Murari                                                                                                        0.92                                 33.33
              Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                     1.84                                  0.00
              Dr. Gita Piramal                                                                                                3.91                                 13.33
              Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                                              3.45                                 66.67
              Dr. Omkar Goswami                                                                                               1.84                                  0.00
              Anami N. Roy                                                                                                    1.84                                 33.33

    (C)       Key Managerial Personnel
              Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO                                                                                                               14.08
              Kevin D'sa, CFO                                                                                                                                      41.91
              Dr. J Sridhar, Company Secretary                                                                                                                     20.56
   (D)        Remuneration of Median Employee (other than whole-time directors)                                                                                     1.24
    (E)       Permanent employees as on 31 March 2019 : 8,064                        5



1. Rakesh Sharma was appointed w.e.f. 1 January 2019. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
2. (a) Remuneration payable to non-executive directors is based on the number of meetings of the board and its committees attended by them as members
       during the year.
   (b) Remuneration to directors for the above purposes does not include sitting fees paid to them for attending board/committee meetings.
3. As approved by the Board, Nanoo Pamnani is being paid an additional commission of H 30 lakh, for certain additional services rendered by him during the year,
   at the request of the management.
4. Manish Kejriwal, non-executive director on the Board, ceased to be director w.e.f. 31 December 2018 after office hours. Figures regarding % increase in his
   case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
5. The term 'Permanent Employees' does not include trainees, probationers and contract employees.


Notes on Disclosures under Rule 5
1. In FY 2018-19, the remuneration of median employee other than whole-time directors increased
   by 1.24% over the previous year.
2. Increase in the remuneration of the WTDs/Managerial Personnel, which in the aggregate
   was 26.63% during the year under review, was given, keeping in view the trends of remuneration
   in industry.
3. The remuneration paid as above was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.


                                                                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                  105
      Directors’ Report




                Secretarial Audit Report (Form MR-3)
                [Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies
                (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]

                For the financial year ended 31 March 2019.

                To,
                The Members,
                Bajaj Auto Ltd.
                (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
                Mumbai-Pune Road,
                Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

                I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the
                adherence to good corporate practices by Bajaj Auto Ltd., (hereinafter called as ‘The Company’).
                The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating
                the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.

                Based on my verification of the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
                maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and
                authorised representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, I hereby report that in my opinion,
                the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31 March 2019, complied
                with the applicable statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper
                Board-processes and compliance mechanism in place subject to the reporting made hereinafter:

                I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
                by the Company for the financial year ended on 31 March 2019, according to the provisions of:

                (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the Rules made thereunder;

                (ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder;

                (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;

                (iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder
                     to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External
                     Commercial Borrowings;

                (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of
                    India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) to the extent applicable:

                    (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
                        Regulations, 2011;

                    (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015,
                        as amended;

                    (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
                        Regulations, 2009 and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and
                        Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;

                    (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;

                    (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;

                    (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and share transfer agents)
                        Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;




106   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
           Directors’ Report




12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19     107
      Directors’ Report




                    (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;

                    (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 and
                        The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; and

                    (i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                        Regulations, 2015, as amended.

                (vi) Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 to the extent of product certification before production and from time to
                     time primarily in respect of vehicles manufactured by the Company.

                I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:-

                (i) Secretarial Standards pursuant to section 118(10) of the Act, issued by the Institute of Company
                    Secretaries of India.

                (ii) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                     Regulations, 2015, as amended.

                During the year under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules,
                Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.

                I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of
                executive directors, non-executive directors and independent directors including one woman director.
                The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under review
                were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.

                Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings including Committees thereof,
                along with agenda and detailed notes on agenda at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for
                seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for
                meaningful participation at the meeting by the directors. The decisions were carried unanimously.

                I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the
                size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,
                regulations and guidelines.

                I further report that during the audit period, there was no other event/action having major bearing on
                the affairs of the Company.


                                                                                                  Shyamprasad D Limaye
                Pune: 17 May 2019                                                                FCS No. 1587 C P No. 572




108   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Directors’ Report




Independent Auditors' Report on compliance with
the conditions of Corporate Governance
[As per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]

To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Mumbai-Pune Road,
Akurdi, Pune-411035.

1. The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Bajaj Auto Limited (hereinafter the “Company”),
   contains details as required by the provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board
   of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (“the
   Listing Regulations”) (‘Applicable criteria’) with respect to Corporate Governance for the year ended
   March 31, 2019. This report is required by the Company to be annexed with the Directors’ Report,
   in terms of Para E of Schedule V to the aforesaid Listing Regulations, for further being sent to the
   Shareholders of the Company.

Management’s Responsibility
2. The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of
   the Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and
   documents. This responsibility also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
   internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Governance Report.

3. The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the
   Company complies with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing
   Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.

Auditors' Responsibility
4. Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to express a
   reasonable assurance in the form of an opinion whether the Company has complied with the
   specific requirements of the Listing Regulations referred to in paragraph 3 above.

5. We conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the
   Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes and the Guidance Note on
   Certification of Corporate Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
   (“ICAI”). The Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes requires that we comply
   with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
   of India.

6. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control
   (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial
   Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.

7. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks
   associated in compliance of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria. Summary
   of key procedures performed include:
   i. Reading and understanding of the information prepared by the Company and included in its
        Corporate Governance Report;
   ii. Obtained and verified that the composition of the Board of Directors w.r.t executive and non-
        executive directors has been met throughout the reporting period;
   iii. Obtained and read the Directors Register as on 31 March 2019 and verified that at least one
        woman director was on the Board during the year;
   iv. Obtained and read the minutes of the following committee meetings held between 1 April 2018
        to 31 March 2019:
        (a) Board of Directors meetings;
        (b) Audit Committee meetings;
        (c) Annual General meeting;



                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        109
      Directors’ Report




                        (d) Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings;
                        (e) Stakeholders Relationship Committee meeting;
                        (f) Independent directors meeting;
                        (g) Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee meeting; and
                        (h) Risk Management Committee meeting;
                    v. Obtained necessary representations and declarations from directors of the Company including
                        the independent directors; and
                    vi. Performed necessary inquiries with the management and also obtained necessary specific
                        representations from Management.

                    The above-mentioned procedures include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the
                    Corporate Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope of work under this report did
                    not involve us performing audit tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the fairness or
                    accuracy of any of the financial information or the financial statements of the Company taken
                    as a whole.

                Opinion
                8   Based on the procedures performed by us as referred in paragraph 7 above, and according to the
                    information and explanations given to us, that we are of the opinion that the Company has complied
                    with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, as applicable
                    for the year ended 31 March 2019, referred to in paragraph 1 above.

                Other matters and Restriction on Use
                9. This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or
                   effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

                10. This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of
                    enabling it to comply with its obligations under the Listing Regulations with reference to compliance
                    with the relevant regulations of Corporate Governance and should not be used by any other person
                    or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care
                    or for any other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may come
                    without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this report for events and
                    circumstances occurring after the date of this report.

                For S R B C and CO LLP
                Chartered Accountants
                ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                per Arvind Sethi
                Partner
                Membership Number: 89802
                UDIN: 19089802AAAAAG1769

                Pune: 17 May 2019




110   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                   Directors’ Report




Declaration by Chief Executive Officer (MD)
[Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V (Part D) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]


I, Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO of Bajaj Auto Ltd. hereby declare that all the members of
Board of Directors and Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of
Board of Directors and Senior Management of the Company.

Rajiv Bajaj
Managing Director and CEO

Pune: 17 May 2019



Certificate by practising company secretary
[Pursuant to Schedule V read with Regulation 34(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations (as amended)]

In the matter of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076) having its registered Office at
Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune-411035.

On the basis of examination of the books, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
maintained by the Company and declarations made by the directors and explanations given by the
Company, I certify that the following persons are Directors of the Company (during 1 April 2018 to
31 March 2019) and none of them have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing
as directors of companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.


Sr. No. Name of Director                                     DIN         Designation


   1    Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj                        00014529      Executive Chairman
   2    Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                     00014593      Non-Executive Vice Chairman
   3    Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                        00018262      Managing Director
   4    Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                       00014615      Non-Executive Director
   5    Dhirajlal Shantilal Mehta                          00038366      Independent Director
   6    Shekhar Bajaj                                      00089358      Non-Executive Director
   7    Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton                    00025254      Independent Director
   8    Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani                            00053673      Independent Director
   9    Murari Pejavar                                     00020437      Independent Director
  10    Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                      00028261      Non-Executive Director
  11    Dr. Gita Piramal                                   01080602      Independent Director
  12    Pradeep Shrivastava                                07464437      Executive Director
  13    Dr. Naushad Darius Forbes                          00630825      Independent Director
  14    Dr. Omkar Goswami                                  00004258      Independent Director
  15    Anami N Roy                                        01361110      Independent Director
  16    Rakesh Sharma                                      08262670      Executive Director

Pune: 17 May 2019


Shyamprasad D. Limaye
FCS. 1587 C.P.No. 572


                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19      111
STANDALONE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
      Standalone Financial Statements




      Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
      Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements
      To the Members of Bajaj Auto Limited

      Report on the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements

      Opinion

      We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS financial statements of Bajaj Auto Limited (‘the Company’), which comprise the
      Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2019, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the statement of Other Comprehensive Income,
      the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements,
      including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as ‘standalone
      financial statements’).

      In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial
      statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (‘the Act’) in the manner so required and give
      a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as
      at 31 March 2019, its profit including other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended on
      that date.

      Basis for opinion

      We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
      under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
      for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the
      ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
      our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder and we have fulfilled our other ethical
      responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
      sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone financial statements.

      Key audit matters

      Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone
      financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2019. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
      standalone financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on
      these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

      We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled
      the responsibilities described in the ‘Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of
      our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond
      to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements. The results of our audit procedures,
      including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying
      standalone financial statements.
      Key audit matters                                                How our audit addressed the key audit matter

      Accounting for investments (as described in note 5 of the standalone financial statements)
      The Company has investments aggregating H 17,936.64 crore         Our audit procedures included the following:
      in equity shares, bonds, liquid mutual funds, short term          l Read the minutes of the meetings of the Investment Committee.
      funds, fixed maturity plans (‘FMPs’) and commercial papers
                                                                        l Performed test of controls on a sample basis on the operating
      as at 31 March 2019. These investments are measured
                                                                          effectiveness of internal controls on investments.
      either at amortised cost, Fair Value through Profit and Loss
      (‘FVTPL’) or Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income        l Tested on a sample basis, the investments underlying the FMPs to

      (‘FVTOCI’) based on fulfilment of required criteria which involve   ascertain whether those investments would satisfy the conditions
      management judgment. Of the above total investments,                of Ind AS.
      the Company’s investments in FMPs as at 31 March 2019             l Compared on a sample basis the indicative yields used by the Company
      amounted to H 12,338.10 crore (63% of total investments).           for accounting for interest income on amortised cost basis, with the actual
      These investments were measured at FVTPL till 31 March 2018.        yields earned by the Company on those FMPs at the time of redemption.




114   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors’ Report on the
Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
Key audit matters                                                How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Accounting for investments (as described in note 5 of the standalone financial statements)
The Company applies amortised cost, where it has ability to      l   Tested on a sample basis the portfolio churn in case of FMPs to ascertain
demonstrate that the underlying instruments in the portfolio         whether majority of the instruments in the FMP are held till maturity.
fulfill the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’)   l   Obtained management representations on the judgments exercised,
test and the churn in the portfolio is negligible. As these          including indicative yields and maturity periods considered for amortised
conditions have been fulfilled effective from 1 April 2018,          cost workings.
the Company, has classified FMPs, as subsequently
                                                                 l   Tested the disclosures made by the Company.
measured at amortised cost.


Information other than the financial statements and auditors’ report thereon

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included
in the Chairman’s Letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not include the
standalone financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and in doing so,
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of management for the standalone financial statements

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of
these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including other
comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates
that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls,
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation
and presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the standalone financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
Management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis
of these standalone financial statements.




                                                                                                             12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          115
      Standalone Financial Statements




      Independent Auditors’ Report on the
      Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
      As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout
      the audit. We also:

      l   Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
          design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
          provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
          resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override
          of internal control.

      l   Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
          the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the
          Company has adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.

      l   Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
          made by Management.

      l   Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit
          evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
          Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
          attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,
          to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained upto the date of our auditors’ report.
          However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

      l   Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures
          and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
          fair presentation.

      We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
      and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

      We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
      regarding independence and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
      on our independence and where applicable, related safeguards.

      From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
      in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2019 and are therefore the key
      audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
      matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because
      the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

      Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

      1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016 (‘the Order’), issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
         sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the Annexure 1 a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4
         of the Order.

      2. As required by section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:

          (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
              necessary for the purposes of our audit;

          (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
              examination of those books;

          (c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow
              Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;

          (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
              section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;




116   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors’ Report on the
Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
   (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2019 taken on record by the
       Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2019 from being appointed as a director in terms
       of section 164 (2) of the Act;

   (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company with reference to these
       standalone financial statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ‘Annexure 2’
       to this report;

   (g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2019 has been paid/provided by the Company to its
       directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;

   (h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit
       and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
       given to us:

      i.   The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements
           – Refer Note 34 to the standalone financial statements;

      ii. The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
          foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 32(c) to the standalone
          financial statements;

      iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
           Fund by the Company.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003


per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Pune: 17 May 2019




                                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          117
      Standalone Financial Statements




      Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report
      Referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report of
      even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Limited
      1. (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of property,
             plant and equipment.

         (b) All property, plant and equipment have not been physically verified by the management during the year but there is a regular
             programme of verification designed to cover all items in a phased manner over a period of three years which, in our opinion,
             is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed
             on such verification.

         (c) According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the title deeds of immovable properties included
             in property, plant and equipment; and investment property are held in the name of the Company except for buildings acquired
             in the prior years having a gross block of H 15.02 crore and a net block of H 12.16 crore whose final registration is pending
             as disclosed in Note 2 to the standalone financial statements of the Company.

      2. The inventory has been physically verified by the Management during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of verification is
         reasonable. No material discrepancies were noticed on such physical verification. Inventories lying with third parties have been
         confirmed by them as at 31 March 2019 and no material discrepancies were noticed in respect of such confirmations.

      3. According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not granted any loans, secured or unsecured to
         companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or other parties covered in the register maintained under section 189 of the
         Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(iii) (a), (b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to the
         Company and hence not commented upon.

      4. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there are no loans, guarantees, and securities given
         in respect of which provisions of section 185 and 186 of the Act are applicable and hence not commented upon. In our opinion and
         according to the information and explanations given to us, provisions of section 186 of the Act in respect of investments made
         have been complied with by the Company.

      5. The Company has not accepted any deposits within the meaning of Sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance of
         Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3 (v) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and
         hence not commented upon.

      6. To the best of our knowledge and as explained, the Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost records under
         section 148(1) of the Act for the products of the Company.

      7. (a) The Company is regular in depositing with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues including provident fund,
             employees’ state insurance, income-tax, customs duty, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues applicable to it.

         (b) According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of provident
             fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, customs duty, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues were
             outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.

         (c) According to the records of the Company, the dues of income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, customs duty, excise duty,
             value added tax, goods and service tax and cess on account of any dispute, are as follows:
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
             Name of                                              Period to which the                         Forum where the
             the statute        Nature of dues             Amount amount relates                              dispute is pending


                                Excise Duty                  333.61 Various years from 1992-93 to 2016-17     Supreme Court
                                Excise Duty                    1.42 Various years from 1985-86 to 2007-08     High Court
             The Central
             Excise Act, 1944   Excise Duty                    1.34 Various years from 1983-84 to 2006-07     Custom Excise and Service Tax
                                                                                                              Appellate Tribunal
                                Excise Duty                    1.48 Various years from 1990-91 to 2015-16     Commissioner Appeals
                               Sales Tax                       0.99 Various years from 1996-97 to 2001-02     High Court
             Central Sales
             Tax Act, 1956 and Sales Tax                      39.51 Various Years from 2001-02 to 2010-11     Appellate Tribunal
             Sales Tax Act of  Sales Tax                       0.25 Financial year 2009-10                    Appellate Authority
             various States
                               Sales Tax                      98.76 Various Years from 1999-00 to 2013-14     Appellate Authority
                                Income Tax                   58.50 Financial year 2007-08 and 2008-09         Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
             The Income
             Tax Act, 1961      Income Tax                  528.27 Various years from 2009-10 to 2014-15 Commissioner of
                                                                                                         Income-Tax (Appeals)


118   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
       Name of                                                      Period to which the                                  Forum where the
       the statute           Nature of dues                  Amount amount relates                                       dispute is pending


                             Service Tax                         3.78 Various years from 1997-98 to 1999-00 High Court
       The Finance
       Act, 1994             Service Tax                       21.45 Various years from 2005-06 to 2011-12 Custom Excise and Service Tax
                                                                                                           Appellate Tribunal
                             Customs Duty                        3.85 Financial year 1984-85 and 1985-86                 High Court
       The Customs
                             Customs Duty                        0.07 Financial year 2017-18                             Commissioner Appeals
       Act, 1962
                             Customs Duty                        5.50 Various years from 1977-78 to 2006-07 Assistant Commissioner of Customs
       Octroi                Octroi                              4.23 Various years from 1981-82 to 1988-89 High Court
       Note: The amounts disclosed above are net of the payments made to the respective authorities where the dispute is pending.



8. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given by the Management, the Company has not defaulted in
   repayment of sales tax deferral loans to the Government. The Company did not have any outstanding loans or borrowing dues in
   respect of a financial institution or bank or dues to debenture holders during the year.
9. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the Company has not raised any money by way of initial
   public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) and term loans. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3 (ix) of the
   Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
10. Based on the audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the financial statements and
    according to the information and explanations given by the Management, we report that no fraud by the Company or material
    fraud on the Company by the officers and employees of the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
11. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the managerial remuneration has been paid/provided in
    accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
12. In our opinion, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(xii) of the Order are not applicable to
    the Company and hence not commented upon.
13. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, transactions with the related parties are in compliance
    with sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the financial
    statements, as required by the applicable accounting standards.
14. According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the Balance Sheet, the Company
    has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the
    year under review. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(xiv) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not
    commented upon.
15. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the Company has not entered into any non-cash
    transactions with directors or persons connected with him as referred to in section 192 of the Act.
16. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of
    India Act, 1934 are not applicable to the Company.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003


per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Pune: 17 May 2019




                                                                                                                             12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         119
      Standalone Financial Statements




      Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report
      Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report
      of even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Limited

      Report on the internal financial controls under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)

      We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Bajaj Auto Limited (‘the Company’) as of 31 March 2019
      in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.

      Management’s responsibility for internal financial controls

      The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control
      over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
      Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
      of India. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were
      operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s policies,
      the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting
      records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.

      Auditor’s responsibility

      Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to
      these standalone financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of
      Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing as specified under section
      143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and, both issued by the Institute
      of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements
      and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial
      reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated
      effectively in all material respects.

      Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial
      reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
      controls over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting with
      reference to these standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
      the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the
      auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud
      or error.

      We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
      internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements.

      Meaning of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements

      A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements is a process
      designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
      for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control over
      financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that:

      (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
          the assets of the company;

      (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
          accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
          only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and

      (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
          company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.




120   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial
statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting
with reference to these standalone financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control
over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference
to these standalone financial statements and such internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these
standalone financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March 2019, based on the internal control over financial reporting
criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on audit of
internal financial controls over financial reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003


per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Pune: 17 May 2019




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         121
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Balance Sheet
                                                                      (H In Crore)

                                                          As at 31 March

      Particulars                           Note No.       2019              2018



      ASSETS
      Non-current assets
      Property, plant and equipment            2        1,688.69       1,821.22
      Capital work-in-progress                 2           11.54              11.15
      Investment property                      3           55.50              57.11
      Intangible assets                        4           19.75                 –
      Intangible assets under development      4           36.48             45.32
      Investments in subsidiaries             5A        1,222.72       1,222.72
      Financial assets
         Investments                          5B       16,360.16      10,600.17
         Trade receivables                    10              –                  –
         Loans                                 6           31.63             30.64
         Other financial assets                7            0.02              0.02
      Income tax assets (net)                             584.41            438.66
      Other non-current assets                 8          306.83            356.85
                                                       20,317.73     14,583.86


      Current assets
      Inventories                              9          961.51            742.58
      Financial assets
         Investments                          5B        1,576.48           5,765.41
         Trade receivables                    10        2,559.69           1,491.87
         Cash and cash equivalents            11          905.38            760.94
         Other bank balances                  12           17.43             17.06
         Loans                                 6            6.34              6.26
         Other financial assets                7          112.94             79.36
      Other current assets                     8          922.89            372.15
                                                        7,062.66       9,235.63
      Total                                            27,380.39     23,819.49




122   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements



Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                       As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                       Note No.              2019              2018



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                13                 289.37           289.37
Other equity                                                                                        14              21,490.53        18,814.49
                                                                                                                   21,779.90      19,103.86


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                              15                 124.52           120.77
Provisions                                                                                          16                  14.56            112.19
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                      17                542.66            323.42
Government grant                                                                                                        43.95             46.61
Other non-current liabilities                                                                       18                   1.12              1.35
                                                                                                                      726.81            604.34


Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
         Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                               2.65              1.06
         Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                      3,784.08         3,243.26
    Other financial liabilities                                                                     19                 370.97           329.26
Other current liabilities                                                                           20                 556.97           393.72
Provisions                                                                                          16                 140.62           125.60
Government grant                                                                                                         2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                           15.74             15.74
                                                                                                                    4,873.68         4,111.29
Total                                                                                                              27,380.39      23,819.49
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                   1

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                            On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                    Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                     Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                  Kevin D’sa                                        Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                            Chief Financial Officer                              Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                      Nanoo Pamnani
Pune: 17 May 2019                                            Company Secretary                               Chairman - Audit Committee




                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                123
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                               For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2019             2018


      Revenue from contracts with customers [See note 42]                                        29,567.25       25,098.64
      Other operating revenue                                                                       682.71           518.62
      Revenue from operations                                                         21         30,249.96        25,617.26
      Other income                                                                    22          1,649.31         1,293.25
      Total income                                                                              31,899.27        26,910.51


      Expenses
      Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              20,301.35        15,999.16
      Purchase of traded goods                                                                    1,579.38         1,401.25
      Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     23            (56.42)             9.68
      Excise duty [See note 42]                                                                           –          398.34
      Employee benefits expense                                                       24          1,255.40         1,069.09
      Finance costs                                                                   25               4.48             1.31
      Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           26            265.69           314.80
      Other expenses                                                                  27          2,218.33         1,926.38
      Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (30.10)          (24.07)
      Total expenses                                                                            25,538.11        21,095.94


      Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     6,361.16        5,814.57


      Exceptional items                                                               28           (342.00)           32.00


      Profit before tax                                                                           6,703.16        5,782.57


      Tax expense
          Current tax                                                                             1,818.59         1,646.36
          Deferred tax                                                                              209.39             68.11
      Total tax expense                                                               29          2,027.98         1,714.47


      Profit for the year                                                                         4,675.18        4,068.10




124   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements



Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                         Note No.               2019             2018


Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                     (5.47)          (21.61)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                     1.91             7.62
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                    84.33                   –
    Tax impact on above                                                                                   (9.82)                  –
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                              5.54         (147.05)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                    (1.94)           50.69


Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)                                                      74.55         (110.35)


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                4,749.73        3,957.75


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (In H)                                           30                   161.6            140.6
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                     1


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                              On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                      Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                       Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                Kevin D’sa                            Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                          Chief Financial Officer                  Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                       Dr. J Sridhar                         Nanoo Pamnani
Pune: 17 May 2019                                           Company Secretary                  Chairman - Audit Committee




                                                                                               12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19             125
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Statement of Changes in Equity
      A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                               For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                       Note No.                        2019             2018


      At the beginning of the year                                                                                                                     289.37          289.37
      Changes in equity share capital during the year                                                                                                       –                  –
      At the end of the year                                                                                                13                        289.37          289.37

      B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                                       Reserves and surplus                         Other reserves
                                                                                                                       Cash flow          Costs of
                                                                                        General         Retained        hedging           hedging          FVTOCI    Total other
      Particulars                                                          Note No.     reserve         earnings         reserve          reserve         reserve         equity



      Balance as at 31 March 2017                                           14          4,046.60       12,562.56         200.27            (64.67)              –     16,744.76


      Profit for the year                                                                     –         4,068.10               –                 –              –       4,068.10
      Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                 –           (13.99)       (120.55)             24.19              –       (110.35)
      Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2018                             –         4,054.11        (120.55)             24.19              –       3,957.75


      Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
      Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                                  407.00         (407.00)              –                 –              –              –
      Final dividend, declared and paid during the year                                       –        (1,591.52)              –                 –              –      (1,591.52)
      Tax on final dividend                                                                   –          (296.50)              –                 –              –       (296.50)


      Balance as at 31 March 2018                                           14          4,453.60       14,321.65           79.72           (40.48)              –     18,814.49


      Profit for the year                                                                     –         4,675.18               –                 –              –       4,675.18
      Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                 –               (3.56)      (19.41)            23.01          74.51          74.55
      Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2019                             –         4,671.62          (19.41)            23.01          74.51       4,749.73


      Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
      Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                                  468.00         (468.00)              –                 –              –              –
      Final dividend, declared and paid during the year                                       –        (1,736.20)              –                 –              –      (1,736.20)
      Tax on final dividend                                                                    –         (337.49)              –                 –              –       (337.49)


      Balance as at 31 March 2019                                           14          4,921.60       16,451.58           60.31           (17.47)          74.51     21,490.53
      Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company     1



      The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
      As per our report of even date                                                                                                  On behalf of the Board of Directors


      For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
      Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                      Chairman
      ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                  Kevin D’sa                                                     Rajiv Bajaj
      per Arvind Sethi                                                      Chief Financial Officer                                           Managing Director
      Partner
      Membership Number: 89802                                                   Dr. J Sridhar                                               Nanoo Pamnani
      Pune: 17 May 2019                                                       Company Secretary                                        Chairman - Audit Committee




126   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Standalone Financial Statements



Statement of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                 2019                            2018


I.   Operating activities
        Profit before tax                                                                            6,703.16                        5,782.57
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
          i) Depreciation and amortisation                                              265.69                          314.80
          ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
              discarded and scrapped                                                      8.41                           10.15
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                   1.19                             3.14
         iv) Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents                      26.96                          (23.61)
          v) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                    2.94                           (1.52)
         vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                     (0.02)                          (0.24)
         vii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                     0.96                            0.87
        viii) Interest expense                                                            3.52                            0.44
                                                                                                       309.65                          304.03
        Less:
          i) Investment income included in above:
              Interest income on fixed income securities                                 24.33                           32.41
              Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                   829.65                                  –
              Profit on sale of other investments, net                                    1.92                            5.40
              Gain on valuation and gain on realisation of mutual funds measured
              at fair value through profit or loss                                      361.19                          889.92
              Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                             94.36                          135.07
              Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of
              fixed income securities                                                    48.21                           25.46
                                                                                      1,359.66                        1,088.26
          ii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back (net)                1.22                             0.11
         iii) Liabilities no longer required written-back                                89.51                           64.39
         iv) Government grants                                                            2.65                            2.65
          v) Exceptional item – NCCD reversal                                          342.00                                   –
         vi) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                            55.05                            7.58
                                                                                                    (1,850.09)                      (1,162.99)
                                                                                                     5,162.72                        4,923.61
        Change in assets and liabilities
          i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                       (218.93)                          (14.20)
          ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                               (1,070.47)                        (539.11)
         iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                            (167.67)                         608.90
         iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                         754.06                           989.50
                                                                                                      (703.01)                       1,045.09
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS optees                                                            (5.84)                         (22.83)
     Net cash from operating activities before income-tax                                            4,453.87                        5,945.87
              Income-tax refund/(paid) for earlier years (net)                                         (10.00)                          (2.54)
              Income-tax paid                                                                       (1,954.34)                      (1,682.54)
     Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                               2,489.53                       4,260.79


                                                                   Carried forward                   2,489.53                        4,260.79


                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19               127
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                               2019                            2018



                                                                       Brought forward                   2,489.53                        4,260.79
      II. Investing activities
               i) Sale of investments                                                     9,140.38                        4,988.52
               ii) Purchase of investments                                               (9,600.95)                     (7,483.30)
              iii) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                        214.81                          558.73
              iv) Purchase of investment property                                                –                           (0.20)
               v) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                 (0.37)                          (3.20)
              vi) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)          (163.53)                        (182.63)
              vii) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment                            76.16                           13.13
             viii) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                 (20.78)                         (13.79)
                                                                                          (354.28)                       (2,122.74)
              ix) Investment income
                    Interest income on fixed income securities                               24.33                           32.41
                    Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                           94.36                          135.07
                                                                                            118.69                          167.48
                    (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                               (8.49)                          37.24
                                                                                            110.20                          204.72


         Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                               (244.08)                      (1,918.02)


                                                                       Carried forward                   2,245.45                        2,342.77




128   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements



Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                   2019                            2018



                                                                  Brought forward                      2,245.45                         2,342.77
III. Financing activities
          i) Interest expense                                                              (3.52)                          (0.44)
         ii) Deferral of sales tax deferral liability                                       2.79                                  –
         iii) Dividend paid                                                            (1,735.83)                      (1,588.32)
         iv) Corporate dividend tax paid                                                (337.49)                        (296.50)


    Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                (2,074.05)                       (1,885.26)


    Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                              171.40                          457.51


    Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                               760.94                           279.82
    Add/(Less): Effects of exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents                        (26.96)                            23.61
    Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year                                                     905.38                           760.94
                                                                                                               –                                 –



As per our report of even date                                                                             On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                      Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                       Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                   Kevin D’sa                                         Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                               Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                         Dr. J Sridhar                                    Nanoo Pamnani
Pune: 17 May 2019                                             Company Secretary                             Chairman - Audit Committee




                                                                                                            12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                129
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019

      Background

      Bajaj Auto Limited (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged in
      the business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles etc. and parts
      thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets. The registered office of the Company is
      located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

      The standalone financial statements were approved for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the
      Company on 17 May 2019.

      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company
      Basis of preparation

      These standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under
      section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,
      as amended from time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

      The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
      (including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value or amortised book value.

      The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
      nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

      All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
      Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
      liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition
      of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as
      12 months for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

      Significant accounting policies

      This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
      have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

      1   Use of estimates, judgments and assumptions

          Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of these financial statements and disclosures made therein are based upon
          Management’s evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements, which may differ
          from the actual results at a subsequent date. The following are items which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to
          estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than those originally assessed. Detailed information about each of these
          estimates is included in the relevant notes together with information about basis of calculation for each affected line item in the
          financial statements:

             a)   Estimation of fair value of derivative instruments
             b)   Estimation of variable considerations in revenue
             c)   Provision for warranties
             d)   Provision for employee benefits
             e)   Provision for tax expenses
             f)   Residual value and useful life of property, plant and equipment
             g)   Provision for diminution in value of investments
             h)   Valuation of investments

      2   Revenue from contracts with customers

          Revenue is recognised when control of goods (vehicles or parts) and services have been transferred to the customer; at an
          amount that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
          The timing of when the Company transfers the goods or provide services may differ from the timing of the customer’s payment.
          Amounts disclosed as revenue are net of goods and service tax (GST).




130   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
  The Company has generally concluded that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements, except for the agency services below
  (in respect of freight), because it typically controls the goods or services before transferring them to the customer.

  The disclosures of significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to revenue from contracts with
  customers are provided below.

  Sale of Goods (vehicles or parts)

  The Company has determined that our customers from the sale of goods are generally dealers and distributors. Transfer of
  control, and therefore revenue recognition, generally corresponds to the date when the goods are made available to the customer,
  or when the goods are released to the carrier responsible for transporting them to the customer in the following manner:

  l   Domestic sales are recognised at the time of dispatch from the point of sale;

  l   Export sales are recognised on the date when shipped on board as per terms of sale and are initially recorded at the relevant
      exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction

  Generally, Company does not offer any specific credit period to its customer. All invoices are due immediately after billing.

  The nature of contracts of the Company are such that no material part performance obligations would remain unfulfilled at the
  end of any accounting period.

  Variable consideration

  If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount (like volume rebates/incentives, cash discounts etc.), the Company
  estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer.
  The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant
  revenue reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the
  variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate of variable consideration for expected future volume rebates/
  incentives, cash discounts etc. are made on the most likely amount method.

  Consideration payable to the customer

  Consideration payable to a customer includes cash amounts that the Company pays, or expects to pay, to the customer.
  The consideration payable to a customer is accounted for as a reduction of the revenue.

  Warranty obligations

  The Company provides warranties for general repairs of defects as per terms of the contract with ultimate customers.
  These warranties are considered as assurance type warranties and are accounted for under Ind AS 37–Provisions,
  Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

  Principal versus agent consideration in respect of freight

  The Company, on behalf of its customers (dealers and distributors), dispatches goods to agreed locations for an agreed fee.
  The Company has determined that the performance obligation of the Company is to arrange for those goods and services
  (Company is an agent) to the dealers and hence the amount charged to the customer offset by freight charges paid to the freight
  service providers is shown as revenue and disclosed as other operating income or other operating expenses, depending upon
  the results of the offsetting.

  Contract balances

  Trade receivables

  A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage of time is
  required before payment of the consideration is due). Refer to accounting policy no. 6 Financial instruments – initial measurement
  and subsequent measurement.




                                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19       131
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
          Contract liabilities

          A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods to a customer for which the Company has received consideration (or an
          amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company transfers goods or
          services to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made, or the payment is due (whichever is earlier).
          Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract.

          Refund liabilities

          A refund liability is the obligation to refund some or all the consideration received (or receivable) from the customer and is
          measured at the amount the Company ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer. The Company updates its
          estimates of refund liabilities (and the corresponding change in the transaction price) at the end of each reporting period.

      3   Property, plant and equipment and depreciation/amortisation

          A. Property, plant and equipment

             i)   Capital work in progress, property, plant and equipment except land are carried at historical cost of acquisition,
                  construction or manufacturing, as the case may be, less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Freehold land
                  is carried at cost of acquisition.

             ii) Cost represents all expenses directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition capable of operating
                 in the manner intended. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment, if the recognition
                 criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company
                 depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost
                 is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
                 All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.

             iii) Costs incurred to manufacture/construct property, plant and equipment are reduced from the total expense under the
                  head ‘Expenses, included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

             iv) Land and buildings acquired/constructed, not intended to be used in the operations of the Company and held for earning
                 long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company, are categorised as
                 investment property.

             v) An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or
                when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the
                asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in
                the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is derecognised.

             vi) The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at regular
                 intervals and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.

          B. Depreciation and amortisation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value

             (a) Leasehold land

                  Premium on leasehold land is amortised over the period of lease.

             (b) Other tangible assets

                  i.   a. Depreciation is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method to allocate the cost, net of residual value over
                          the estimated useful lives of the assets.

                       b. Where a significant component (in terms of cost) of an asset has an estimated economic useful life shorter than
                          that of its corresponding asset, the component is depreciated over its shorter life.

                       c. The Company, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and management estimate, depreciates
                          certain items of property, plant and equipment over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life
                          prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The management believes that these estimated useful lives
                          are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used.


132   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
            ii. Assets which are depreciated over useful life/residual value different than those indicated by Schedule II are as under:
               Asset class                          As per Schedule II                     Useful life

               Aircraft                             20 years                               10 years
               PDC Dies                             8 years                                3 years

            iii. Depreciation on additions is being provided on pro rata basis from the month of such additions.

            iv. Depreciation on assets sold, discarded or demolished during the year is being provided upto the month in which such
                assets are sold, discarded or demolished.

4   Intangible assets

    A. Technical know-how acquired

       Technical know-how acquired is stated at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any.
       Acquired technical know-how is amortised equally over a period of estimated useful life i.e. six years.

    B. Technical know-how developed by the Company

       i)   Expenditure incurred by the Company on development of know-how researched, is recognised as an intangible asset,
            if and only if the future economic benefits attributable to the use of such know-how are probable to flow to the Company
            and the costs/expenditure can be measured reliably.

       ii) Costs incurred to develop an intangible asset are reduced from total expenses and disclosed under the head ‘Expenses,
           included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

       iii) The cost of technical know-how developed is amortised equally over its estimated useful life i.e. generally three years
            from the date of commencement of commercial production.

    C. Research and development costs

       Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project are recognised as an intangible
       asset when the Company can demonstrate:
       l  The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale
       l  Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset
       l  How the asset will generate future economic benefits
       l  The availability of resources to complete the asset
       l  The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development

       Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated
       amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete, and the
       asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation expense is recognised in the
       Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset.

       During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.

5   Investment property

    Property which is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company,
    is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
    Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits
    associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Repairs and
    maintenance costs are expensed when incurred.

    Depreciation on investment property is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method over the estimated useful lives.
    Useful life of assets, as assessed by the Management, corresponds to those prescribed by Schedule II–Part ‘C’.




                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19       133
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
      6   Investments and financial assets

          A. Investment in subsidiaries

             Interest in subsidiaries are recognised at cost. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the said investments.

             The Company assesses at the end of each reporting period, if there are any indications that the said investments may be
             impaired. If so, the Company estimates the recoverable value/amount of the investment and provides for impairment, if any
             i.e. the deficit in the recoverable value over cost.

          B. Other investments and financial assets

             i.   Classification

                  The Company classifies its financial assets at initial recognition in the following measurement categories:
                  l  those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income, or through
                     profit or loss), and
                  l  those to be measured at amortised cost.

                  The classification is done depending upon the Company’s business model for managing the financial assets and the
                  contractual terms of the cash flows.

                  For assets classified as ‘measured at fair value’, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other
                  comprehensive income, as elected. For assets classified as ‘measured at amortised cost’, this will depend on the business
                  model and contractual terms of the cash flows.

             ii. Measurement

                  Initial Measurement

                  Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other
                  comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The classification of financial assets at initial
                  recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Company’s business model for
                  managing them.

                  At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value including, in the case of ‘a financial asset
                  not at FVTPL’, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of
                  financial assets carried at ‘FVTPL’ are expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss, when incurred.

                  Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Company has applied the
                  practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer accounting policy no.2
                  ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.

                  For a financial asset to be classified and subsequently measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI (excluding equity
                  instruments which are measured at FVTOCI), it needs to give rise to cash flows that are ‘solely payments of principal and
                  interest (SPPI)’ on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at
                  an instrument level.

                  The Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets to generate
                  cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows,
                  selling the financial assets, or both.

                  Subsequent Measurement

                  Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on the Company’s business model for managing the financial asset
                  and the cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Company
                  classifies its financial instruments:




134   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
        Subsequently measured at amortised cost:

        A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:

        a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and

        b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
           interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.

        Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent SPPI are
        measured at amortised cost e.g. debentures, bonds, fixed maturity plans, trade receivables etc.

        This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently
        measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking
        into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
        Interest income from trade receivables is included in other operating income in the Statement of Profit and Loss;
        whilst interest income from the remaining financial assets is included in other income in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
        The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. A gain or loss on a financial
        asset that is subsequently measured at amortised cost is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the
        asset is derecognised or impaired.

        In case of fixed maturity plans (FMP), they are measured at amortised cost, if the Company intends to hold the FMPs to
        maturity. Further, the Company applies amortised cost for those FMPs where the Company is able to demonstrate that
        the underlying instruments in the portfolio would fulfill the SPPI test and the churn in the underlying portfolio is negligible.
        These conditions are assessed at each balance sheet date. If these conditions are not fulfilled, then FMPs are valued
        at FVTPL.

        Subsequently measured at FVTOCI:

        All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading,
        if any, are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company may make an irrevocable election to
        present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an
        instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.

        Equity instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair
        value. Fair value movements are recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI). If the Company decides to classify
        an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, are recognised
        in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to Statement of Profit and Loss, even on sale of investment.
        However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.

        Subsequently measured at FVTPL:

        Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost and FVTOCI are measured at fair value through profit
        or loss e.g. investments in mutual funds. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at fair value
        through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other
        gains/(losses) in the period in which it arises.

        In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVTOCI
        criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or
        recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has designated investments in mutual
        funds (other than FMP) as at FVTPL. Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with
        all changes recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

     iii. Impairment of financial assets

        The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its financial assets carried
        at amortised cost for e.g., debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balances; and lease receivables under
        Ind AS 17. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk
        and if so, assess the need to provide for the same in the Statement of Profit and Loss.




                                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           135
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
                The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables; and all
                lease receivables resulting transactions within the scope of Ind AS 17.

                The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises
                impairment loss allowance based on lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) at each reporting date, right from its
                initial recognition.

                For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines whether there
                has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly,
                12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL
                is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant
                increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on
                12-month ECL

                Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial
                instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within
                12 months after the reporting date.

                ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract
                and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR.
                When estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider all contractual terms of the financial instrument over
                the expected life of the financial instrument.

                ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised during the period is recognised as income/expense in the
                Statement of Profit and Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the Statement of Profit
                and Loss. The Balance Sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below:

                l   Financial assets measured at amortised cost, revenue receivables and lease receivables: ECL is presented as an
                    allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces
                    the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance
                    from the gross carrying amount.

                For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments based on shared
                credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in
                credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.

            iv. Derecognition of financial assets

                A financial asset is derecognised only when Company has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the financial
                asset or the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired. Where the entity has transferred an asset,
                the Company evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
                In such cases, the financial asset is derecognised.

            v. Reclassification of financial assets

                The Company determines classification of financial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition,
                no reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial assets
                which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is a change in the business model for managing those
                assets. Changes to the business model are expected to be infrequent. The Company’s senior management determines
                change in the business model as a result of external or internal changes which are significant to the Company’s
                operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. A change in the business model occurs when the Company
                either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations. If the Company reclassifies financial
                assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date which is the first day of the immediately
                next reporting period following the change in business model. The Company does not restate any previously recognised
                gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest.

                The Company applies amortised cost, where it has ability to demonstrate that the underlying instruments in the portfolio
                fulfill the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) test and the churn in the portfolio is negligible. As these
                conditions have been fulfilled effective from 1 April 2018, the Company, has classified FMPs, as subsequently measured at
                amortised cost.



136   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
7   Derivative and hedging activities

    The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as range forward and par forward currency contracts to hedge its
    foreign currency risks. Such derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date at which the derivative
    contract is entered and are subsequently re-measured at fair value as at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for
    subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature
    of the item being hedged, and the type of hedge relationship designated.

    The company documents its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. In terms
    thereof, the Company designates their derivatives as hedges of foreign exchange risks associated with the cash flow of highly
    probable forecast transactions (viz. export sales).

    The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the
    hedged item is more than 12 months; it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item
    is less than or equal to 12 months.

    Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting –

    The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised
    in the other comprehensive income in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of
    the hedged item on a present value basis from the inception of the hedge. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is
    recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss, within other gains/(losses).

    For hedge accounting, hedges are classified as Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is
    either attributable to a risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign
    currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.

    When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates them in entirety as the hedging
    instrument. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value for the effective portion of cash flow hedges is recognised
    in OCI and later reclassified to profit or loss when the hedge item affects profit or loss.

    Where option contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates intrinsic value of the option contract as
    hedging instrument.

    Gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in intrinsic value of the option contract are recognised in the
    cash flow hedging reserve within equity. The changes in time value of the option contracts that relate to the hedged items are
    recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’ within equity.

    When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative
    gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a forecast transaction is no
    longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Statement of
    Profit and Loss. When a hedging instrument is unexercised and expires, the cumulative gain or loss is reversed within equity with
    the corresponding effect to the hedge receivable/payable.

    If the hedge ratio for risk management is no longer optimal, but risk management objectives remain unchanged and hedge
    continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationships are re-balanced so that the hedge ratio aligns.
    Consequently, hedge ineffectiveness is computed and accounted for in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

8   Impairment of non-financial assets

    Assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
    recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
    amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of
    assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are
    largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets (cash-generating units).

9   Foreign currency transactions

    i)   Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which
         the Company operates (‘the functional currency’).



                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         137
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
         ii) On initial recognition, all foreign currency transactions are recorded at the foreign exchange rate on the date
             of the transaction.

         iii) Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency outstanding at the close of the financial year are revalorised at the
              appropriate exchange rates prevailing at the close of the year.

         iv) The gain or loss on decrease/increase in reporting currency due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, in case of monetary
             assets and liabilities in foreign currency, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

         v) Fixed assets purchased at liaison offices in foreign exchange are recorded at their historical cost computed with reference to
            the average rate of foreign exchange remitted to the liaison office.

         vi) Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
             rates at the dates of the initial transactions.

      10 Inventories

         Cost of inventories have been computed to include all costs of purchases (including materials), cost of conversion and other costs
         incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

         i)   Finished stocks of vehicles and auto spare parts and stocks of work-in-progress are valued at cost of manufacturing or net
              realisable value whichever is lower. Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.

         ii) Stores, packing materials and tools are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
             whichever is lower.

         iii) Raw materials and components are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
              whichever is lower.

         iv) Inventory of machinery spares and maintenance materials not being material are expensed in the year of purchase.

         v) Goods in transit are stated at actual cost incurred upto the date of Balance Sheet.

         Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the
         estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

      11 Employee benefits

         a) Privilege leave entitlements

              Privilege leave entitlements are recognised as a liability, in the calendar year of rendering of service, as per the rules
              of the Company. As accumulated leave can be availed and/or encashed at any time during the tenure of employment,
              subject to terms and conditions of the scheme, the liability is recognised based on an independent actuarial valuation.

              They are therefore measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided
              by employees upto the end of the reporting period using the projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted using
              the market yields at the end of the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
              Remeasurements as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in Statement
              of Profit and Loss.

         b) Gratuity

              Payment for present liability of future payment of gratuity is being made to approved gratuity fund, which fully covers the
              same under Cash Accumulation Policy and Debt fund of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Bajaj Allianz Life
              Insurance Company Ltd. (BALIC). However, any deficit in plan assets managed by LIC and BALIC as compared to the liability
              based on an independent actuarial valuation is recognised as a liability.

              The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value of the
              defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation
              is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method in conformity with the principles and manner of
              computation specified in Ind AS 19.


138   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
       Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in
       net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on
       the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to
       retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in
       subsequent periods.

       The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
       value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

   c) Superannuation

       Defined contribution to superannuation fund is being made as per the scheme of the Company and recognised as expense as
       and when due.

   d) Provident fund contributions are made to Company's Provident Fund Trust. The contributions are accounted for as defined
      benefit plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Deficits, if any, of the fund
      as compared to liability based on an independent actuarial valuation is to be additionally contributed by the Company and
      hence recognised as a liability.

   e) Defined contribution to Employees Pension Scheme 1995 is made to Government Provident Fund Authority and recognised
      as expense as and when due.

12 Taxation

   a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
      authorities, in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961; and the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards prescribed therein.
      The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.

   b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other
      comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI
      or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
      applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

   c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
      liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
      enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
      asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

       Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
       future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

13 Provisions and contingent liabilities

   The Company creates a provision when there is present obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow
   of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
   amount of the obligation. A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
   that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of resources. When the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote,
   no provision or disclosure is made.

   If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects,
   when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage
   of time is recognised as a finance cost.

14 Operating leases including investment properties

   As a lessee

   Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating
   leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the
   period of the lease in a manner which is representative of the time pattern in which benefit derived from the use of the leased
   asset is diminished.


                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           139
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
         As a lessor

         The Company has leased out certain assets and such leases where the Company has substantially retained all the risks and
         rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Lease income on such operating leases are recognised in the Statement
         of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term in a manner which is representative of the time pattern in which
         benefit derived from the use of the leased asset is diminished. Initial direct costs are recognised as an expense in the Statement
         of Profit and Loss in the period in which they are incurred.

      15 Government grant

         Grants from the Government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be
         received, and the Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to income are deferred and
         recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and
         presented within other income.

         Government grants in the nature of export incentives are accounted for in the period of export of goods if the entitlements can be
         estimated with reasonable accuracy and conditions precedent to claim are reasonably expected to be fulfilled.

         When loans or similar assistance are provided by Governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current
         applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable interest is regarded as a Government grant. The loan or assistance is initially
         recognised and measured at fair value and the Government grant is measured as the difference between the initial carrying
         value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy applicable to
         financial liabilities.

      16 Dividends

         Provision is made for any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity, on or
         before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.

      17 Cash and cash equivalents

         For presentation in the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, other short-term, highly liquid
         investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are
         subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

      18 Earnings per share

         Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the
         weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s
         earnings per share is the net profit for the period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period
         and all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that
         have changed the number of equity shares outstanding without a corresponding change in resources.

         For calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the
         weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.

      19 Segment reporting

         Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Core Management Committee
         which includes the Managing Director who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Core Management Committee examines
         performance both from a product as well as from a geographical perspective and has identified two operative reportable
         segments from which significant risks and rewards are derived viz. Automotive business and Investments.

      20 Fair value measurement

         The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date. Fair value is the price
         that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
         measurement date.




140   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes
   place either:

   l   In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
   l   In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.

   The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.

   The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the
   asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their best economic interest.

   A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits
   by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest
   and best use.

   The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to
   measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.

   All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair
   value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:

   l   Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities

   l   Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or
       indirectly observable

   l   Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.

   The Company has set policies and procedures for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurement of financial assets,
   which includes valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.

   For fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities based on the nature, characteristics and
   risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.

   This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes.

   l   Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions (note 1 clause 1)
   l   Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy (note 31)
   l   Investment properties (note 3)
   l   Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) (note 31)

21 Other income

   a) Dividends

       Dividends are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss only when the right to receive payment is established, and it
       is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company and that the amount of the
       dividend can be measured reliably.

   b) Other income

       The Company recognises income on accrual basis. However, where the ultimate collection of the same lacks reasonable
       certainty, revenue recognition is postponed to the extent revenue is reasonably certain and can be reliably measured.




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          141
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
      22 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures

         New and amended standards

         The Company applied Ind AS 115 for the first time. The nature and effect of the changes as a result of adoption of this new
         accounting standard is described below.

         Several other amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in March 2019, but do not have an impact on the
         standalone financial statements of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standards or amendments that have
         been issued but are not yet effective.

         Ind AS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers

         Ind AS 115 was issued on 28 March 2018 and supersedes Ind AS 11 Construction Contracts and Ind AS 18 Revenue and it
         applies to the Company, with limited exceptions, to all revenue arising from contracts with its customers. Ind AS 115 establishes
         a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers and requires that revenue be recognised at
         an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services
         to a customer.

         Ind AS 115 requires the Company to exercise judgment, taking into consideration all the relevant facts and circumstances
         when applying each step of the model to contracts with their customers. The standard also specifies the accounting for the
         incremental costs of obtaining a contract and the costs directly related to fulfilling a contract. In addition, the standard requires
         extensive disclosures.

         The Company adopted Ind AS 115 using the modified retrospective method of adoption with the date of initial application of
         1 April 2018. Under this method, the standard can be applied either to all contracts at the date of initial application or only to
         contracts that are not completed at this date. The Company elected to apply the standard to all contracts as at 1 April 2018.

         The cumulative effect of initially applying Ind AS 115 as at the date of initial application of 1 April 2018 amounts to H Nil.
         Therefore, the comparative information was not restated and continues to be reported under Ind AS 18.

         Set out below, are the amounts by which each financial statement line item is affected as at and for the year ended 31 March 2019
         as a result of the adoption of Ind AS 115. The adoption of Ind AS 115 did not have a material impact on OCI or Balance Sheet or the
         Company’s operating, investing and financing cash flows.

         Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                          H In Crore
                                                                                                            31 March 2019
         Particulars                                                        Note No.     Ind AS 115      Previous Ind AS     Increase/(decrease)



         Net revenues                                                        21            29,567.25            29,630.72                  (63.47)
         Other expenses                                                      27             2,218.33             2,281.80                  (63.47)

         The items causing Ind AS 115 adjustments are explained below:

         The Company had launched sales incentive schemes in which customers were offered free insurance on vehicles purchased.
         The cost of insurance was borne by the Company. This cost of insurance was reduced from revenue from operations as part of
         variable consideration.

         Other amended standards applicable to the Company

         Amendments to Ind AS 12 recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses

         The amendments clarify that an entity needs to consider whether tax law restricts the sources of taxable profits against which it
         may make deductions on the reversal of that deductible temporary difference. Furthermore, the amendments provide guidance
         on how an entity should determine future taxable profits and explain the circumstances in which taxable profit may include the
         recovery of some assets for more than their carrying amount. Entities are required to apply the amendments retrospectively.




142   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
  These amendments do not have any impact on the Company as the Company has no deductible temporary difference or assets
  that are in the scope of these amendments.

  Transfers of Investment Property — Amendments to Ind AS 40

  The amendments clarify when an entity should transfer property, including property under construction or development into,
  or out of investment property. The amendments state that a change in use occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet,
  the definition of investment property and there is evidence of the change in use. A mere change in management’s intentions for
  the use of a property does not provide evidence of a change in use.

  These amendments do not have any impact on the Company’s standalone financial statements.

  Appendix B to Ind AS 21 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration

  The Appendix clarifies that, in determining the spot exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or
  income (or part of it) on the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to advance consideration,
  the date of the transaction is the date on which an entity initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability
  arising from the advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, then the entity must determine the
  transaction date for each payment or receipt of advance consideration.

  Entities may apply the Appendix requirements on a fully retrospective basis. Alternatively, an entity may apply these requirements
  prospectively to all assets, expenses and income in its scope that are initially recognised on or after:

  (i) The beginning of the reporting period in which the entity first applies the Appendix, or

  (ii) The beginning of a prior reporting period presented as comparative information in the financial statements of the reporting
       period in which the entity first applies the Appendix.

  These amendments do not have any impact on the Company’s standalone financial statements since the Company’s current
  practice is in line with the amendment.




                                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         143
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      2 Property, plant and equipment
        Current year
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    Gross block (a)                                                 Depreciation                          Net block
                                                                                                                                        As at                                                     As at          As at
                                                                            As at                                   Deductions/     31 March            As at                      For the    31 March       31 March
      Particulars                                                   1 April 2018                Additions           adjustments         2019    1 April 2018    Deductions         year (d)       2019           2019



      Land freehold                                                           20.09                         –                0.12       19.97              –            –                –           –           19.97
      Land leasehold                                                          53.04                         –                0.65      52.39               –            –                –           –          52.39
      Buildings (b) (c)                                                      929.46                     3.12                 0.48     932.10          287.11          0.08           25.91      312.94          619.16
      Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                        17.31                     0.05                    –       17.36          11.96            –             0.80        12.76           4.60
      Plant and machinery                                                 1,381.46                    36.71                 54.02    1,364.15         966.75         49.49           61.48      978.74         385.41
      Computers and IT Equipment                                              77.59                     2.34                 2.43      77.50           63.42          2.43            7.28       68.27            9.23
      Dies and jigs                                                          739.01                   57.39                 18.02     778.38          511.60         14.22           57.39      554.77         223.61
      Electric installations                                                  73.83                     0.46                    –      74.29           66.99            –             1.54       68.53            5.76
      Factory equipment                                                      376.79                   26.31                  2.10     401.00          175.63          1.71           25.72      199.64         201.36
      Furniture                                                               49.60                     1.82                10.59      40.83           30.30         10.59            3.09       22.80           18.03
      Office equipment                                                        50.58                     5.53                10.85      45.26           41.96         10.85            4.32       35.43            9.83
      Electric fittings                                                       31.53                     0.28                    –      31.81           21.51            –             1.92       23.43            8.38
      Vehicles and aircraft                                                  648.85                   17.19                304.73     361.31          450.69        284.45           64.11      230.35          130.96
      Total                                                              4,449.14                   151.20                 403.99   4,196.35       2,627.92        373.82          253.56     2,507.66       1,688.69


      Capital work–in–progress                                                11.15                    9.48                  9.09      11.54               –            –                –           –          11.54
      (a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
      (b) Includes premises on ownership basis in Co-operative Society H 25.26 crore and cost of shares therein H 5,250.
      (c) Includes premises purchased, pending registration amounting to H 15.02 crore.
      (d) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.




              Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    Gross block (a)                                                 Depreciation                          Net block
                                                                                                                                        As at                                                     As at          As at
                                                                            As at                                   Deductions/     31 March            As at                      For the    31 March       31 March
      Particulars                                                   1 April 2017                Additions           adjustments         2018    1 April 2017    Deductions         year (d)       2018           2018



      Land freehold                                                           20.18                         –                0.09      20.09               –            –                –           –           20.09
      Land leasehold                                                          53.69                         –                0.65      53.04               –            –                –           –           53.04
      Buildings (b) (c)                                                      877.46                   52.35                  0.35     929.46          259.25          0.06           27.92      287.11         642.35
      Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                        17.18                     0.13                    –      17.31           11.16            –             0.80       11.96            5.35
      Plant and machinery                                                 1,436.41                    31.94                 86.89    1,381.46         983.15         81.46           65.06      966.75         414.71
      Computers and IT Equipment                                              86.52                     3.88                12.81      77.59           66.29         12.81            9.94       63.42           14.17
      Dies and jigs                                                          694.97                   78.18                 34.14     739.01          489.16         32.40           54.84      511.60         227.41
      Electric installations                                                  72.98                     0.85                    –      73.83           64.36            –             2.63       66.99            6.84
      Factory equipment                                                      368.99                   18.05                 10.25     376.79          158.99          9.62           26.26      175.63         201.16
      Furniture                                                               47.07                     2.66                 0.13      49.60           26.50          0.11            3.91       30.30           19.30
      Office equipment                                                        49.17                     1.70                 0.29      50.58           37.27          0.28            4.97       41.96            8.62
      Electric fittings                                                       31.38                     0.23                 0.08      31.53           19.06          0.07            2.52       21.51           10.02
      Vehicles and aircraft                                                  643.28                   16.86                 11.29     648.85          385.48          3.82           69.03      450.69         198.16
      Total                                                               4,399.28                  206.83                 156.97   4,449.14       2,500.67        140.63          267.88     2,627.92        1,821.22


      Capital work-in-progress                                                10.64                   10.89                 10.38      11.15               –            –                –           –          11.15
      (a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
      (b) Includes premises on ownership basis in Co-operative Society H 25.26 crore and cost of shares therein H 5,250.
      (c) Includes premises purchased, pending registration amounting to H 15.02 crore.
      (d) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.




144   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2019             2018



Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                           69.66             69.46
Additions                                                                                                                      –             0.20
Closing balance                                                                                                           69.66             69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                           12.55             10.93
Depreciation charge                                                                                                         1.61             1.62
Closing balance                                                                                                            14.16            12.55
Net carrying amount                                                                                                       55.50             57.11

i)   Amounts recognised in profit or loss for investment properties
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2019             2018



Rental income                                                                                                             15.24             13.34
Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income                                                      (0.55)           (2.09)
Direct operating expenses from property that did not generate rental income                                                    –                  –
Profit from investment properties before depreciation                                                                     14.69             11.25
Depreciation                                                                                                               (1.61)           (1.62)
Profit from investment property                                                                                           13.08              9.63

ii) Contractual obligations
     The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property. There are no contractual obligations to purchase,
     construct or develop investment property as at the year end.


iii) Leasing arrangements
     Investment property is leased out to various tenants under operating leases. Disclosure on future rent receivable is included in Note 39.

iv) Fair value
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2019             2018



Investment property                                                                                                      201.20            199.31

Estimation of fair value

The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar properties. Since investment properties leased out by the
Company are cancellable and non-cancellable leases, the market rate for sale/purchase of such premises are representative of fair values.
Company’s investment properties are at a location where active market is available for similar kind of properties. Hence, fair value is
ascertained on the basis of market rates prevailing for similar properties in those location determined by an independent registered valuer
and consequently classified as a level 2 valuation.




                                                                                                             12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19               145
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      4 Intangible assets
        Current year
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                 Gross block                                           Amortisation                         Net block
                                                                                           As at                                                    As at          As at
                                                    As at               Deductions/    31 March            As at                      For the   31 March       31 March
      Particulars                           1 April 2018    Additions   adjustments        2019    1 April 2018    Deductions           year        2019           2019



      Intangible assets
      Technical know-how developed                     –       29.62              –       29.62               –            –            9.87         9.87          19.75


      Total intangible assets                          –       29.62              –       29.62               –            –            9.87        9.87          19.75


      Intangible assets under development          45.32       20.78           29.62      36.48               –            –               –           –          36.48




            Previous year
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                 Gross block                                           Amortisation                         Net block
                                                                                           As at                                                    As at          As at
                                                    As at               Deductions/    31 March            As at                      For the   31 March       31 March
      Particulars                           1 April 2017    Additions   adjustments        2018    1 April 2017    Deductions           year        2018           2018



      Intangible assets
      Technical know–how developed                133.93           –              –      133.93           89.28            –           44.65      133.93                –


      Total intangible assets                    133.93            –              –      133.93           89.28            –           44.65      133.93                –


      Intangible assets under development          31.53       13.79              –       45.32               –            –               –           –          45.32




146   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                              Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                     Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                          As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                2019              2018         2019              2018



(A) Investments in subsidiaries
   Investments carried at cost
       In subsidiaries:
              Unquoted:
              1,980,000 (1,980,000) Shares of Euro 100 each in Bajaj Auto
                        International Holding BV Amsterdam, Netherlands                 1,218.72           1,218.72           –                 –
               411,875 (411,875) Shares of US$ 3 each in
                       PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                             6.17               6.17           –                 –
                          Less: Provision for diminution in the value of
                          investment (see note 43)                                          2.17               2.17           –                 –
                                                                                           4.00               4.00            –                 –


Total (A)                                                                               1,222.72       1,222.72               –                 –


(B) Other Investments
   Investments carried at fair value through OCI
       In Equities:
              Quoted:
              2,910,050 (–) Shares of H 10 each in Bajaj Holdings
                        & Investments Ltd.                                               994.23                  –            –                 –
                          Fair value                                                     994.23                  –            –                 –


   Investments carried at amortised cost
       In Bonds and debentures:
              Quoted:
                   200 (200) 8.85% Corporation Bank of H 1,000,000 each                       –              20.08        20.02                 –
                  3,000 (3,000) 6.70% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd.
                        - Tax Free of H 100,000 each                                          –              30.00        30.00                 –
                        – (30,000) 7% Industrial Development Bank of India Ltd.
                          of H 5,000 each (net of provision for diminution
                          amounting to H Nil - previous year H 1.95 crore)                    –                  –            –            14.86
                 58,520 (58,520) Zero Coupon Rural Electrification Corporation
                        Ltd. of H 30,000 each                                            152.85              141.11           –                 –
                        – (59,500) Zero Coupon National Bank for Agriculture
                          and Rural Development of H 20,000 each                              –                  –            –            112.64
                  1,000 (-) 7.585% LIC Housing Finance Ltd. of H 1,000,000 each               –                  –        99.55                 –
                      25 (-) 8.38% HDFC Bonds of H 10,000,000 each                            –                  –        24.94                 –


                           Amortised cost                                                152.85             191.19       174.51            127.50
                                                                      Carried over      1,147.08            191.19       174.51            127.50




                                                                                                                12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           147
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                       Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                            As at 31 March                 As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                            2019              2018         2019              2018



                                                                        Brought over      1,147.08            191.19       174.51            127.50
             In Commercial Paper:
                    Unquoted:
                            – (2,000) Commercial Paper of H 500,000 each of
                              Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                              311D - 27-07-2018                                                 –                  –           –              97.58
                                Amortised cost                                                  –                  –           –              97.58


             In Fixed Maturity Plans
                    Unquoted:
                20,000,000 (13,468,504) Units of Axis Fixed Term Plan
                           Direct Growth                                                     21.23                 –           –              18.84
             2,062,000,000 (1,756,838,585) Units of Aditya Birla Sun Life
                           Fixed Term Plan Direct Growth                                  2,196.77           1,077.61       24.15            922.58
               615,000,000 (295,000,000) Units of DSP Blackrock Fixed Maturity
                           Plan Direct Growth                                              666.52             303.84           –                  –
                    2,060,000 (244,042,741) Units of DHFL Pramerica Fixed Maturity
                              Direct Plan Growth (Formerly known as DWS)                   204.83             148.46       24.20             318.37
               911,000,000 (384,000,000) Units of HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan
                           Direct Growth                                                   904.38             262.18        64.16            165.46
             1,976,000,000 (1,552,000,000) Units of ICICI - Prudential Fixed
                           Maturity Plan Direct Growth                                    1,958.49           1,216.76      219.53            511.52
               213,000,000 (225,184,414) Units of IDFC Fixed Term Plan
                           Direct Growth                                                   233.27             163.94           –              89.87
             1,653,000,000 (1,160,790,148) Units of Kotak Fixed Maturity
                           Plan Direct Growth                                             1,634.27            770.03       152.11            549.14
               170,000,000 (44,224,052) Units of L & T Fixed Maturity Plan
                           Direct Growth                                                    178.17             15.27           –              40.48
             1,622,000,000 (1,506,393,253) Units of Reliance Fixed Horizon
                           Fund Direct Growth                                             1,408.70            987.80       414.95            739.87
               315,000,000 (400,000,000) Units of Religare Invesco Fixed Maturity
                           Plan Direct Growth                                              339.43             173.52           –             289.90
               922,000,000 (749,788,719) Units of SBI Debt Fund Direct Growth               847.99            296.45       151.20            586.30
               125,000,000 (300,000,000) Units of Sundaram Fixed Term
                           Plan Direct Growth                                               75.03              89.30        68.74            268.59
               100,000,000 (109,908,036) Units of Tata Fixed Maturity
                           Plan Direct Growth                                              106.32              25.13           –             119.40
               408,000,000 (624,000,000) Units of UTI Fixed Maturity Plan
                           Direct Growth                                                   428.00             225.54        15.67            502.42
                                Amortised cost as at 31 March 2019/
                                Fair value through P&L as at 31 March 2018               11,203.40       5,755.83        1,134.71           5,122.74
                                                                        Carried over     12,350.48           5,947.02    1,309.22       5,347.82




148   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                            Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                   Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                        As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                              2019              2018         2019             2018



                                                                   Brought over      12,350.48           5,947.02     1,309.22       5,347.82
       Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
       In Short-term Mutual Funds
              Quoted:
                        – (62,596,530) Units of DHFL Pramerica Premier Bond
                          Fund Direct Plan - Growth (Formerly known as DWS)                 –             180.41            –                 –
         106,322,463 (140,384,729) Units of DSP BlackRock Banking and
                     PSU Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                              170.84             209.08            –                 –
         567,937,057 (610,795,547) Units of IDFC Corporate Bond Fund -
                     Direct Plan - Growth                                              730.39             731.14            –                 –
          88,329,348 (102,374,410) Units of IDFC Super Saver Income Fund
                     - Short-term - Direct Plan - Growth                               349.30             374.24            –                 –
                        – (673,146) Units of Invesco India Short-term Fund -
                          Direct Plan - Growth                                              –             160.32            –                 –
         126,783,076 (142,011,147) Units of Kotak Bond Short-term Plan -
                     Direct Plan - Growth                                              462.42             478.27            –                 –
         126,178,652 (126,178,652) Units of L&T Short-term Opportunities
                     Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                        231.70            214.57            –                 –
         235,482,214 (235,482,214) Units of Reliance Banking and PSU Debt
                     Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                       320.23             296.94            –                 –
          92,496,457 (92,496,457) Units of Reliance Floating Rate Fund -
                     Short-term - Direct Plan - Growth                                 278.57             259.98            –                 –
         146,141,389 (146,141,389) Units of ICICI Prudential Income
                     Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                          386.12            361.85            –                 –
         449,031,864 (528,195,474) Units of HDFC Medium Term
                     Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                         940.08            1,025.11           –                 –
                        – (61,327,262) Units of Tata Short-term Bond Fund -
                          Direct Plan - Growth                                              –             205.65            –                 –
          47,617,832 (56,895,578) Units of Sundaram Banking and PSU
                     Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                  140.03             155.59            –                 –
                          Fair value                                                  4,009.68       4,653.15               –                 –
                                                                    Carried over     16,360.16      10,600.17         1,309.22       5,347.82




                                                                                                              12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           149
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                         Non-current investments                 Current investments
                                                                                                                As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                2019               2018               2019               2018



                                                                                     Brought over           16,360.16          10,600.17           1,309.22           5,347.82
               In Liquid Mutual Funds
                    Quoted:
                               – (911,729) L&T Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                     –                  –                  –            217.25
                               – (735,343) SBI Premier Liquid Fund -
                                 Direct Plan - Growth                                                                 –                  –                  –           200.34
                      726,614 (726,614) HDFC Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                       –                  –            267.26                     –
                                  Fair value                                                                          –                  –            267.26             417.59


      Total (B)                                                                                             16,360.16          10,600.17           1,576.48            5,765.41


      Total (A+B)                                                                                          17,582.88          11,822.89           1,576.48           5,765.41


      Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments                                                   2.17               2.17                  –              1.95



                                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 Book value                           Market value
                                                                                                                As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                2019               2018               2019               2018



                                                                                            Quoted           5,598.53           5,389.43           5,600.71           5,393.32
                                                                                         Unquoted           13,560.83          12,198.87                  NA                 NA
                                                                                              Total        19,159.36          17,588.30
      Notes to Investments
      1 Investments made by the Company other than those with a maturity of less than one year, are intended to be held for long-term. On an assessment of the expected
        credit loss due to significant changes in risk profile, no material provisions are required to be made.
      2 In absence of an active market and non availability of quotes on a recognised stock exchange, investment in fixed maturity plans and fixed term plans though listed on
        recognised stock exchanges are disclosed as unquoted. Other mutual funds, though unlisted, are quoted on recognised stock exchanges at their previous day NAVs
        which is the quote for the day.
      3 Refer note 1 (6) for accounting policy on investments and note 32 for credit risk management related to investments.
      4 Refer note 43 for write-down of investment in PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia.




150   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                  Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2019                2018               2019                2018


Security deposits                                                                                            24.61              23.34                    –                    –
Employee loans                                                                                                 7.02               7.30               6.34                   6.26
                                                                                                             31.63              30.64                6.34                   6.26
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally. [See note 38]


7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2019                2018               2019                2018


Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                                                                        0.02               0.02                   –                    –
Interest receivable on investments                                                                                –                   –               9.64                  1.15
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                                                                        –                  –              0.68                   0.60
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 31]                                                    –                  –             65.85              60.32
Other advances                                                                                                     –                  –             36.77               17.29
                                                                                                               0.02               0.02             112.94              79.36


8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2019                2018               2019                2018


Capital advances                                                                                            101.90               89.96                   –                    –
Security deposits                                                                                              6.70               4.89                   –                    –
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind
    Advances to related parties [See note 38]                                                                     –                   –              4.68                   4.21
    Other advances                                                                                           23.49              24.34               82.20               34.10
    Doubtful advances                                                                                          8.14               8.14                   –                    –
                                                                                                             31.63              32.48               86.88              38.31
    Provision for doubtful advances                                                                            8.14               8.14                   –                    –
                                                                                                             23.49              24.34               86.88              38.31
VAT refund receivable                                                                                       174.74             237.66               29.51               45.14
GST credit/refund receivable                                                                                       –                  –            259.04             167.80
NCCD deposit receivable from Government [See note 28]                                                              –                  –           342.00                      –
Export incentives receivable
    Unsecured considered good                                                                                      –                  –           205.46              120.90
    Doubtful                                                                                                   0.21               5.95                   –                    –
                                                                                                               0.21               5.95            205.46              120.90
    Provision for doubtful export incentives                                                                   0.21               5.95                   –                    –
                                                                                                                   –                  –           205.46              120.90
                                                                                                           306.83              356.85             922.89              372.15


                                                                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                     151
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                 2019              2018



      Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 53.62 crore (previous year H 27.98 crore))                            424.26             259.01
      Work-in-progress                                                                                                            46.96             26.89
      Finished goods                                                                                                            470.41             434.06
      Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                         16.37             18.43
      Loose tools                                                                                                                  3.51              4.19
                                                                                                                                 961.51            742.58

      Amount recognised in profit and loss
      Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H (5.12) crore
      (Previous year – H 0.62 crore). These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the Statement of Profit and Loss.



      10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                 Non-current                        Current
                                                                                                 As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                2019             2018            2019              2018



      Unsecured, considered good                                                                      –               –        2,559.69           1,491.87
      Credit impaired                                                                              6.74            6.99               –                  –
                                                                                                   6.74            6.99        2,559.69           1,491.87
      Impairment allowance for credit impaired                                                     6.74            6.99               –                  –
                                                                                                      –               –        2,559.69         1,491.87


      11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                 2019              2018



      Balances with banks                                                                                                       560.61             514.39
      Cash on hand                                                                                                                 0.10              0.11
      Cash equivalents
          Certificate of Deposits and Commercial Papers with maturity of less than three months from
          date of acquisition                                                                                                   344.67             246.44
                                                                                                                                905.38             760.94




152   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Non-current                       Current
                                                                                       As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                             2019             2018           2019             2018



Unclaimed dividend accounts                                                                 –                –          17.43            17.06
Deposits with residual maturity for more than 12 months                                  0.02             0.02              –                 –
                                                                                         0.02             0.02          17.43            17.06
Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' [See note 7]                            (0.02)           (0.02)             –                 –
                                                                                            –                –          17.43            17.06


13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2019             2018



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                300.00            300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                289.37            289.37
                                                                                                                      289.37            289.37


a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2019             As at 31 March 2018
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      D In Crore           Nos.        D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                     289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020           289.37
Issued during the year                                                                      –                –              –                 –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                               289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020           289.37


b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

   The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote
   per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors and
   approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
   the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
   The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.

c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2019             As at 31 March 2018
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      % Holding            Nos.        % Holding



Equity shares of D 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                   96,727,050           33.43%    91,280,000            31.54%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                           25,844,400             8.93%    25,844,400            8.93%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                               13,429,329             4.64%     17,200,152            5.94%



                                                                                                            12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19             153
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      14 Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                                       2019                 2018



      Reserves and surplus:
      General reserve
      Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                                       4,453.60           4,046.60
      Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                   468.00                407.00
      Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                                             4,921.60           4,453.60


      Retained earnings
      Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                                      14,321.65          12,562.56
      Profit for the year                                                                                                                           4,675.18           4,068.10
      Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
          Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                                                             (3.56)              (13.99)
      Less: Appropriations
          Transfer to General reserve                                                                                                                 468.00                407.00
          Final dividend, declared and paid during the year                                                                                         1,736.20               1,591.52
          Tax on final dividend                                                                                                                       337.49                296.50
      Total appropriations                                                                                                                          2,541.69           2,295.02


      Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                                            16,451.58          14,321.65


      Other reserves:
      Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 32]                                                                                                           60.31                79.72
      Costs of hedging reserve [See note 32]                                                                                                           (17.47)              (40.48)


      FVTOCI reserve
      Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                                                –                   –
      Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                                                                                    74.51                    –
      Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                                                 74.51                    –


                                                                                                                                                   21,490.53          18,814.49


      15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                                       2019                 2018



      Unsecured
      Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
      interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                124.52                120.77
                                                                                                                                                      124.52                120.77
      The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
      for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. Also see note 31.




154   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                       Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
16 Provisions
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                    Non-current                      Current
                                                                                    As at 31 March                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                         2019              2018         2019              2018



Provision for employee benefits [See note 37]
Provision for gratuity                                                              12.01            108.99            –                 –
Provision for compensated absences                                                      –                –        118.25            106.42
Provision for welfare scheme                                                         2.55              3.20         0.52              0.51
                                                                                    14.56            112.19       118.77            106.93
Other provisions
Provision for warranties                                                                –                –         21.85             18.67
                                                                                    14.56            112.19       140.62            125.60


Provision for warranties
Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of vehicles sold which are still under warranty at the end of the reporting
period. These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year. Management estimates the provision based on historical
warranty claim information; and any recent trends that may suggest future claims could differ from historical amounts.
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                        2019              2018



At the beginning of the year                                                                                       18.67             20.99
Arising during the year                                                                                            19.98             14.88
Utilised during the year                                                                                           16.80             17.20
At the end of the year                                                                                             21.85             18.67




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19            155
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)

      17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                           As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                           2019             2018



      Deferred tax liabilities
      On account of timing difference in
          Property, plant and equipment                                                    231.38           254.24
          National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD) [See note 28]                           104.07                –
          Employee benefits:
              Defined benefit plans provisions - P&L                                        13.38                –
              Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                         0.45             0.21


          Financial instruments:
              Mutual funds including fixed maturity plans                                  236.62           223.24
              Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                32.40            39.36
              Financial assets at FVTOCI                                                     9.82                –
              Amortisation of discount on acquisition of fixed income securities             8.70             9.24
                                                                                           287.54           271.84
      Gross deferred tax liabilities                                                       636.82           526.29


      Deferred tax assets
      On account of timing difference in
          Employee benefits:
              Voluntary retirement & welfare scheme costs                                    1.48             3.44
              Bonus provisions                                                               2.39             2.39
              Provision for privilege leave etc.                                            41.32            37.19
              Defined benefit plans provisions - P&L                                           –             22.90
              Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                        17.58            15.19
                                                                                            62.77            81.11
          Financial instruments:
              Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                 9.39            18.28
              Long-term loss on reduction of share capital                                     –             81.15
              Provision for diminution in value of investments                                 –              0.23
                                                                                             9.39            99.66
          Other items:
              Provision for bad/doubtful debts and advances                                  5.20             5.29
              Taxes, duties, others etc.                                                    16.80            16.81
                                                                                            22.00            22.10
      Gross deferred tax assets                                                             94.16           202.87
                                                                                           542.66           323.42




156   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
17 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Contd.)
Movement in deferred tax liabilities
                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                       Property,
                                                                       plant and   Financial    Employee       Other
Particulars                                                           equipment instruments      benefits      items           Total



At 1 April 2017                                                          300.07       147.67      (72.37)      (61.75)        313.62
Charged/(credited)
    – to profit and loss                                                 (45.83)       75.20        (0.91)      39.65          68.11
    – to other comprehensive income                                           –       (50.69)       (7.62)            –       (58.31)
At 31 March 2018                                                         254.24       172.18       (80.90)     (22.10)        323.42
Charged/(credited)
    – to profit and loss                                                 (22.86)       93.97        34.11      104.17         209.39
    – to other comprehensive income                                           –        12.00        (2.15)            –         9.85
At 31 March 2019                                                         231.38       278.15       (48.94)      82.07         542.66


18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                   2019             2018



Annuity payable to VRS optees                                                                                  1.12             1.35
                                                                                                               1.12             1.35


19 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                   2019             2018



Security deposits                                                                                             25.04            21.61
Unclaimed dividend                                                                                            17.43            17.06
Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                                               28.88             26.28
Employee benefits payable                                                                                    164.81           136.41
Other payables                                                                                               134.81           127.90
                                                                                                             370.97           329.26
Refer note 31 for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.




                                                                                                  12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19             157
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      20 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                         2019              2018



      Annuity payable to VRS optees                                                                                        0.38              5.99
      Advance received from customers                                                                                   490.83             327.58
      Taxes and duties payable                                                                                           37.88              36.08
      Other payables                                                                                                     27.88              24.07
                                                                                                                        556.97             393.72


      21 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                         2019              2018



      Revenue from operations
      Revenue from contracts with customers
      Sale of products [See note 42]                                                                                 29,567.25       25,098.64


      Other operating revenue
      Scrap sales                                                                                                        21.56              21.31
      Export incentives                                                                                                 457.07             343.43
      Royalty                                                                                                           128.67              98.68
      Technical know how fees                                                                                                 –              1.20
      Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                   75.41              54.00
                                                                                                                        682.71             518.62
                                                                                                                     30,249.96        25,617.26


      Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
      India                                                                                                           17,722.17      15,395.54
      Outside India                                                                                                  11,845.08            9,703.10
      Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                    29,567.25       25,098.64


      Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
      Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                29,785.13        25,247.62
      Adjustments:
          Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                         (154.41)           (148.98)
          Sales promotion expenses                                                                                      (63.47)                  –
      Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                          29,567.25       25,098.64




158   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                       Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
22 Other income
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                          2019             2018



Investment income
Interest income on fixed income securities                                                                          24.33             32.41
Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                        48.21            25.46
Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                                            829.65                   –
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                                            902.19             57.87


Provision for diminution in value of investment in subsidiary written-back [See note 43]                                 –          199.41
Less: Write-down of investment in subsidiary                                                                             –         (199.41)
                                                                                                                         –                  –


Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                                                                      94.36           135.07


Gain on valuation and gain on realisation of mutual funds and fixed maturity plans measured at FVTPL                361.19          889.92
Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                                              1.92             5.40
                                                                                                                 1,359.66         1,088.26
Others
Rent [See note 39]                                                                                                  31.39             29.27
Insurance claims                                                                                                      0.86             0.56
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                              94.42             80.51
Government grants                                                                                                     2.65             2.65
Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                                    55.05              7.58
Bad debts recovered                                                                                                   0.03             0.36
Sundry credit balances appropriated                                                                                   0.83             0.84
Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back                                                                1.22             0.12
Less: Write backs on account of amounts written off during the year                                                   0.47             0.01
                                                                                                                      0.75              0.11
Liabilities no longer required written-back                                                                          89.51           64.39
Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                                       14.16            18.72
                                                                                                                   289.65           204.99


                                                                                                                 1,649.31         1,293.25




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19              159
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      23 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
                                                                                                               (Increase)/
      Particulars                                                                    2019            2018        decrease



      Inventories at the end of the year
      Work-in-progress                                                               46.96           26.89             (20.07)
      Finished goods                                                                470.41         434.06              (36.35)
                                                                                    517.37         460.95              (56.42)
      Inventories at the beginning of the year
      Work-in-progress                                                               26.89           39.83               12.94
      Finished goods                                                                434.06         430.80                (3.26)
                                                                                    460.95         470.63                 9.68
                                                                                    (56.42)           9.68


      24 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                    2019                2018



      Salaries, wages and bonus to employees [See note 38]                                       1,092.84              927.39
      Contribution to provident and other funds [See note 37 and 38]                                 90.42              80.55
      Staff welfare expenses                                                                         72.14               61.15
                                                                                                 1,255.40            1,069.09


      25 Finance costs
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                    2019                2018



      Interest expense                                                                                3.52                0.44
      Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                         0.96                0.87
                                                                                                      4.48                1.31


      26 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                    2019                2018



      Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                253.56              267.88
      Depreciation on investment property                                                             1.61                1.62
      Amortisation of technical know-how                                                              9.87              44.65
      Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                  0.65                0.65
                                                                                                   265.69              314.80


160   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                 Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
27 Other expenses
                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                    2019             2018



Stores and tools consumed                                                                                    141.28            117.71
Power, fuel and water                                                                                        115.01           100.26
Rent [See note 39]                                                                                            14.99             13.71
Repairs to buildings                                                                                          45.45            44.25
Repairs to machinery                                                                                          92.45           110.26
Other repairs                                                                                                   6.86             8.75
Insurance                                                                                                       3.04             3.20
Rates and taxes                                                                                                 6.36             4.02
Payment to auditor                                                                                              1.73             1.67
Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                         1.31             1.20
Commission to non-executive directors                                                                           2.12             1.91
Travelling expenses                                                                                           66.63             55.97
Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                       328.81           306.36
Sales tax/VAT expenses                                                                                             –             9.00
Packing material consumed                                                                                    347.93            269.18
Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                              202.75            118.12
Advertisement                                                                                                484.94           437.39
Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                                   152.39           102.65
Sales promotion expenses                                                                                      82.25           106.87
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                         112.32           100.51
Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                                    0.58              0.11
Less: Provisions made in earlier years in respect of amounts written off during the year                        0.47             0.01
                                                                                                                0.11             0.10
Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                                  8.41            10.15
Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)                  1.19             3.14
                                                                                                           2,218.33         1,926.38

Payment to auditor
                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                    2019             2018



As auditor
   Audit fee                                                                                                    1.04              1.10
   Tax audit fee                                                                                                0.08             0.08
   Limited review                                                                                               0.53             0.25
   Other services (certification fees)                                                                          0.04             0.17
Reimbursement of expenses                                                                                       0.04             0.07
                                                                                                                1.73             1.67




                                                                                                  12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19              161
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                      2019             2018



      a) Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year                                            111.20             99.83
      b) Amount spent in cash during the year on:
         i)   Construction/acquisition of any asset                                                                        –                  –
         ii) On purposes other than (i) above                                                                        112.32           100.51
                                                                                                                     112.32           100.51



      28 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                      2019             2018



      NCCD reversal                                                                                                 (342.00)                  –
      Dealer compensation                                                                                                  –            32.00
                                                                                                                    (342.00)           32.00


      The Company, during the year ended 31 March 2015, had expensed off the payments made towards deposit of ‘National Calamity
      Contingent Duty’ (NCCD) and applicable education cess and secondary and higher education cess thereon, together with interest
      and penalty amounting to H 342.00 crore for the period from 1 April 2007 to 30 September 2014, pursuant to an order from the
      Honourable High Court of Uttarakhand on 9 October 2014 that the levy of NCCD is out of the purview of exemptions granted to the
      Company under the scheme of incentives for industries in certain identified growth areas in Uttarakhand.

      In the current year, pursuant to a special leave petition filed by the Company, the Honourable Supreme Court vide its judgment dated
      27 March 2019 has held that the Company is not liable to pay NCCD, education cess and secondary and higher education cess;
      and set aside the orders of Division Bench of Nainital High Court and quashed the show cause notices. The Company has accordingly
      reversed the charge of H 342.00 crore as an exceptional item in the current year; and has disclosed the corresponding amount in the
      Balance Sheet as ‘Deposits receivable from the Government’. The Company has however not received refund of the said amount from
      the Excise authorities upto the date of approval of the financial statements by the Board of Directors of the Company.

      Exceptional items for the year ended 31 March 2018 represent a one time payment to dealers to compensate them for any losses
      incurred on introduction of GST as a result of pre-GST inventory held on 30 June 2017.




162   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
29 Tax expense
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                2019             2018



(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                                    1,818.59         1,646.36


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                               108.71             38.73
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                          100.68             29.38
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                                     209.39             68.11


Tax expense                                                                                            2,027.98         1,714.47


(b) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                      6,703.16         5,782.57
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 34.944% (Previous year - 34.608%)                                        2,342.35         2,001.23
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                                        19.44            17.79
    –   Disallowance of estimated expenditure to earn tax exempt income                                     0.10             0.10
    –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                          4.64             4.31
    –   Rate difference on account of fair value of mutual funds                                          40.39             86.78
    –   Others                                                                                              0.62             5.07


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Weighted deduction for Research and Development expenditure                                      (74.24)          (65.72)
    –   Tax-free interest                                                                                 (0.70)           (0.70)
    –   Difference in tax rate on account of dividend received from subsidiary                           (16.49)          (23.37)
    –   National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD)                                                         (15.44)                  –
    –   Deduction for profit from specified undertaking                                                  (45.30)          (46.74)
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                               (168.21)        (134.10)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                       (57.70)        (129.55)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                                     (1.48)           (0.63)
Tax expense                                                                                            2,027.98         1,714.47


30 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                2019             2018



a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                    4,675.18         4,068.10
    Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                             289,367,020     289,367,020
b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                161.6            140.6
    Face value per share H                                                                                  10.0             10.0



                                                                                              12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19              163
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      31 Fair value measurement
      i) Financial instruments by category
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                         31 March 2019                                         31 March 2018
                                                                                              Amortised                                            Amortised
      Particulars                                               FVTPL          FVTOCI              Cost              FVTPL           FVTOCI             Cost



      Financial assets
      Investments
          –   Equity                                                 –          994.23                –                   –               –                   –
          –   Bonds and debentures                                   –                –          327.36                   –               –            318.69
          –   Fixed maturity plans                                   –                –        12,338.11        10,878.57                 –                   –
          –   Short-term mutual funds                         4,009.68                –               –             4,653.15              –                   –
          –   Liquid mutual funds                               267.26                –               –               417.59              –                   –
          –   Commercial papers                                      –                –               –                   –               –              97.58
      Trade receivables                                              –                –         2,559.69                  –               –          1,491.87
      Loans                                                          –                –            37.97                  –               –              36.90
      Other financial assets                                         –                –            47.11                  –               –              19.06
      Cash and cash equivalents                                      –                –          905.38                   –               –            760.94
      Other bank balances                                            –                –            17.43                  –               –              17.06
      Derivative financial assets                                    –           65.85                –                   –           60.32                   –
      Total financial assets                                  4,276.94        1,060.08        16,233.05         15,949.31             60.32          2,742.10


      Financial liabilities
      Sales tax deferral                                             –                –          124.52                   –               –            120.77
      Trade payables                                                 –                –         3,786.73                  –               –          3,244.32
      Other financial liabilities                                    –                –          370.97                   –               –            329.26
      Total financial liabilities                                    –                –        4,282.22                   –               –          3,694.35

      ii) Fair value hierarchy
          This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are recognised
          and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has
          classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows
          underneath the table.

      Financial assets measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
      Particulars                                                                     Note No.         Level 1           Level 2       Level 3           Total



      Financial investments at FVTPL
          –   Short-term mutual funds                                                     5           4,009.68                   –             –     4,009.68
          –   Liquid mutual funds                                                         5                267.26                –             –       267.26
      Financial investments at FVTOCI
      Derivatives designated as hedges
          –   Forward contracts                                                           7                    –                 –             –              –
          –   Option contracts                                                            7                    –           65.85               –        65.85
      Equity Investment                                                                   5                994.23                –             –       994.23
      Total financial assets                                                                           5,271.17            65.85               –     5,337.02



164   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                     Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
31 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy (Contd.)

Assets disclosed at fair value - at 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            Level 1          Level 2          Level 3             Total


Investment property                                                                                    3                      –         201.20                   –        201.20


Financial assets measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements - at 31 March 2018
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            Level 1          Level 2          Level 3             Total


Financial investments at FVTPL
    –    Fixed maturity plans                                                                          5                      –     10,878.57                    –    10,878.57
    –    Short-term mutual funds                                                                      5              4,653.15                  –                 –      4,653.15
    –    Liquid mutual funds                                                                          5                 417.59                 –                 –        417.59
Financial investments at FVTOCI
    –    Forward contracts                                                                            7                       –            9.90                  –           9.90
    –    Option contracts                                                                             7                       –          50.42                   –         50.42
Total financial assets                                                                                               5,070.74       10,938.89                    –    16,009.63


Assets disclosed at fair value - at 31 March 2018
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            Level 1          Level 2          Level 3             Total


Investment property                                                                                    3                      –         199.31                   –        199.31

Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets. Quotes would include rates/values/valuation references
published periodically by BSE, NSE etc. basis which trades take place in a linked or unlinked active market. This includes traded bonds and mutual funds, as the case
may be, that have quoted price/rate/value.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market are determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable
market data (either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices) and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair
value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is the case for unlisted equity securities,
contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value include
   l Open ended mutual funds at NAV’s/rates declared and/or quoted
   l Derivative Instruments at values determined by counter parties/Banks using market observable data


iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              31 March 2019                           31 March 2018
                                                                                                           Carrying                 Fair           Carrying                 Fair
Particulars                                                                                                 Amount                 value            Amount                 value



Financial assets
Investments
Bonds and debentures                                                                                          327.36              329.53              318.69              322.58
Fixed maturity plans                                                                                       12,338.11          12,428.55                      –                      –
Total financial assets                                                                                     12,665.47          12,758.08               318.69              322.58
The carrying amounts of commercial papers, certificate of deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, other financial assets/liabilities, loans and cash and cash
equivalents are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.




                                                                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                       165
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      32 Financial risk management
      The Company’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including foreign exchange risk). In order to minimise
      any adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward
      contracts, foreign currency option contracts are entered to hedge certain foreign currency risk exposures. Derivatives are used
      exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or speculative instruments.

      This note explains the sources of risk which the Company is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the impact of hedge
      accounting in the financial statements
      Risk                        Exposure arising from                       Measurement                Management



                                  Cash and cash equivalents, financial        Credit ratings             Diversification of counterparties,
                                  assets measured at amortised cost and                                  diversification of investment limits,
                                  fair value through profit or loss                                      monitoring of counterparties basis
                                                                                                         credit rating
      Credit Risk
                                  Derivative financial instruments            Credit ratings             Deal with reputed banks holding high
                                                                                                         credit risk rating
                                  Trade receivables                           Credit Limit and           No. of overdue days, monitoring of
                                                                              Aging analysis             credit limits
      Liquidity Risk              Other liabilities                           Maturity analysis          Maintaining sufficient cash/cash
                                                                                                         equivalents and marketable securities
      Market Risk–                Highly probable forecast transactions and   Sensitivity analysis       Forward foreign exchange contracts
      Foreign Exchange            financial assets and liabilities not                                   and foreign currency options
                                  denominated in INR


      The Board of Directors provide guiding principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as
      foreign exchange risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of
      available funds. The Company’s risk management is carried out by a treasury department as per such policies approved by the Board
      of Directors. Accordingly, Company’s treasury department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.

      A) Credit risk

      Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty may default on its contractual obligations leading to a financial loss to the Company.
      Credit risk primarily arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, financial assets measured at amortised
      cost, financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and trade receivables. None of the financial instruments of the
      Company result in material concentration of credit risk.

      Credit risk management

      For Derivative instruments exposures are extended with multiple banks holding high credit risk ratings.

      In regard to Trade receivables, which are typically unsecured, credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing
      credit limits and continuously monitoring the credit worthiness of customers to whom credit is extended in the normal course
      of business. The Company follows a ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables.
      Accordingly, impairment loss allowance is recognised based on lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date, right from its
      initial recognition. Expected credit losses of financial assets receivable in the next 12 months are estimated on the basis of historical
      data provided the Company has reasonable and supportable data using a provision matrix to measure expected credit losses.
      The provision rates are based on days past due; and the calculation reflects the probability weighted outcome, the time value of
      money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and
      forecasts of future economic conditions. On such an assessment the expected losses are nil or negligible, as evidenced in the table
      below, and hence no further provision than that already made is considered necessary.

      However, the Company has a policy to provide for any amount which is outstanding for more than 180 days from its due date, if they
      are considered as doubtful.




166   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                       Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure of the Company’s trade receivables using provision matrix:

                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               More than
                                                                              Current         0-180         180 days and
Particulars                                                              (not yet due)    days (due)       doubtful (due)             Total



ECL Rate                                                                          0%             0%                100%
31 March 2019        Estimated total gross carrying amount                           -      2,559.69                 6.74       2,566.43
                     ECL-Simplified approach                                         -             -                 6.74               6.74
                     Net carrying amount                                             -      2,559.69                    -        2,559.69


31 March 2018        Estimated total gross carrying amount                           -      1,491.87                6.99         1,498.86
                     ECL-Simplified approach                                         -             -                6.99               6.99
                     Net carrying amount                                             -      1,491.87                    -           1,491.87



Reconciliation of impairment allowance – Trade receivable
Particulars                                                                                                                  (J In Crore)



Impairment allowance as on 1 April 2017                                                                                               4.95
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                              2.04
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2018                                                                                              6.99
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                            (0.25)
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2019                                                                                               6.74

For other financial assets the Company has an investment policy which allows the Company to invest only with counterparties having
a credit rating equal to or above AA+ and P1+. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of these counterparties on an on-going
basis. Counter party limits maybe updated as and when required, subject to approval of Board of Directors.

B) Liquidity risk

The Company’s principal source of liquidity are ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and cash flows that are generated from operations.
The Company believes that its working capital is sufficient to meet the financial liabilities within maturity period. The Company has no
outstanding term borrowings except sales tax deferral liability amounting to H124.52 crore which are interest free and are repayable
after 14 years from the Balance Sheet date. Additionally, the Company has invested its surplus funds in fixed income securities or
instruments of similar profile thereby ensuring safety of capital and availability of liquidity as and when required.
Hence, the Company carries a negligible liquidity risk.
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                        2019               2018



The Company had
Net working capital funds                                                                                        2,188.98           5,124.34
which includes;
   i)   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                 905.38             760.94
   ii) Current investments                                                                                       1,576.48           5,765.41




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19             167
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
      The table below summarises the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018:
      Maturities of financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Less than
                                                                                                           and equal    More than
      Particulars                                                                                           to 1 year      1 year         Total



      As on 31 March 2019
      Non-derivatives
      Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                               -      124.52       124.52
      Trade payables                                                                                        3,786.73            -     3,786.73
      Other financial liabilities                                                                             370.97            -       370.97
      Total non-derivative liabilities                                                                       4,157.70      124.52     4,282.22


      As on 31 March 2018
      Non-derivatives
      Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                              –       120.77       120.77
      Trade payables                                                                                        3,244.32            –     3,244.32
      Other financial liabilities                                                                             329.26            –       329.26
      Total non-derivative liabilities                                                                      3,573.58       120.77     3,694.35

      C) Market risk

      (i) Foreign currency risk

      The Company has significant exports and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions,
      primarily with respect to the US$. Foreign exchange risk arises from highly probable forecast transactions and recognised assets
      and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Company’s functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through sensitivity
      analysis. The primary objective for forex hedging against anticipated foreign currency risks will be to hedge the Company's highly
      probable foreign currency cash flows arising from such transactions (thus reducing cash flow and profit volatility).

      The Company’s risk management policy permits the use of plain foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency option
      contracts including Foreign Currency – INR Option Cost Reduction Structures to hedge forecasted sales.

      The Company also imports certain materials the value of which is not material as compared to value of exports.
      Currently, Company does not hedge this exposure. Nevertheless, Company may wish to hedge such exposures.

      The Company uses a combination of foreign currency option contracts and foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its exposure
      in foreign currency risk. The Company designates forward contracts in entirety and intrinsic value of foreign currency option
      contracts as the hedging instrument. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument
      is recognised through other comprehensive income in the ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The change in time value that
      relate to the hedged item (aligned time value) is recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’
      within equity. Amount recognised in equity is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item (i.e. forecasted export sales) affects
      Statement of Profit or Loss. The ineffective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument and any residual time value
      (the non-aligned portion), if any, is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

      The intrinsic value of foreign exchange option contracts is determined with reference to the relevant spot market exchange rate.
      The differential between the contracted strike rate and the spot market exchange rate is defined as the intrinsic value. Time value of
      the option is the difference between fair value of the option and the intrinsic value.




168   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The fair values (Marked-to-market) of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as on 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 are
as follows:
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                               As at 31 March 2019            As at 31 March 2018
                                                                             Notional In     MTM Gain/   Notional In        MTM Gain/
For export transactions:                                                   USD Mn (Sell)        (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)           (Loss)



Foreign currency derivative designated as hedging instruments –
par forward contracts                                                                   -               –        546.00                9.90
Foreign currency derivative designated as hedging instruments –
options contracts                                                                1,222.00            65.85      1,066.00             50.42
Total                                                                            1,222.00            65.85      1,612.00             60.32
For import transactions: NIL
Open exposure

The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
                                                                                                                            (USD Million)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
                                                                                                                   2019              2018



Receivables                                                                                                       63.41              60.48
Payables                                                                                                          20.47              15.00
Others (EEFC balances)                                                                                             61.43             47.48

Sensitivity analysis

The following table demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant. The impact on other components of equity arises from the changes in fair value of the foreign forward exchange contracts
and foreign exchange option contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               31 March       31 March
Impact on other components of equity                                                                               2019           2018


INR/USD – Increase by 10%                                                                                       (349.24)           (630.36)
INR/USD – Decrease by 10%                                                                                        766.66             453.97

Maturity of outstanding contracts

The details in respect of the maturity of outstanding foreign exchange contracts including options and par forward contracts are
given below:
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                               As at 31 March 2019            As at 31 March 2018
                                                                             Notional In     MTM Gain/   Notional In        MTM Gain/
On export transactions:                                                    USD Mn (Sell)        (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)           (Loss)


Not later than three months                                                       305.50             22.60       312.00              33.70
Later than three months and not later than six months                             305.50             20.44       312.00              23.20
Later than six month and not later than one year                                   611.00            22.81       702.00               7.73
Later than one year and not later than two years                                       –                –        286.00              (4.31)
                                                                                 1,222.00            65.85      1,612.00             60.32
On import transactions: NIL


                                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19             169
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
      Impact of hedging activities

      (a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:
      Cash flow hedge Foreign exchange risk 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                     Carrying amount                          Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                                    Nominal          of hedging              Hedge            value of hedging         item used as a basis for
      Particulars                                   value            instrument              ratio*           instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



      Foreign exchange forward contracts                         –                       –                –                (196.29)                                        196.29
      Foreign currency options                          8,450.74                    92.72               1:1                  (47.41)                                         47.41
      Total                                             8,450.74                    92.72                                  (243.70)                                        243.70

      Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2018
                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                     Carrying amount                          Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                                    Nominal          of hedging              Hedge            value of hedging         item used as a basis for
      Particulars                                   value            instrument              ratio*           instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



      Foreign exchange forward contracts                3,558.55                      9.90              1:1                    13.11                                        (13.11)
      Foreign currency options                          6,947.66                   112.65               1:1                  158.85                                       (158.85)
      Total                                            10,506.21                   122.55                                    171.96                                       (171.96)
      * The foreign exchange forward and option contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.

      (b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance
      Cash flow hedge 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                          Change in the value of                Hedge                         Amount reclassified         Line item affected in
                                          the hedging instrument                ineffectiveness               from cash flow              the statement of profit
                                          recognised in other                   recognised in profit          hedging reserve to          and loss because of the
      Particulars                         comprehensive income                  or loss                       profit or loss              reclassification



      Foreign exchange risk –
      Forward contracts                                              (196.29)                             –                    (186.39)                                  Revenue
      Foreign exchange risk –
      Options contracts                                               (47.41)                             –                     (27.48)                                  Revenue
                                                                     (243.70)                             –                    (213.87)

      Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2018
                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                          Change in the value of                Hedge                         Amount reclassified         Line item affected in
                                          the hedging instrument                ineffectiveness               from cash flow              the statement of profit
                                          recognised in other                   recognised in profit          hedging reserve to          and loss because of the
      Particulars                         comprehensive income                  or loss                       profit or loss              reclassification



      Foreign exchange risk –
      Forward contracts                                                 13.11                             –                        3.21                                  Revenue
      Foreign exchange risk –
      Options contracts                                               158.85                              –                     352.47                                   Revenue
                                                                      171.96                              –                     355.68



170   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The Company enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the
hedged item, so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. During the years ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018,
the Company did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items.

Therefore, no ineffectiveness is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018.

Movements in cash flow hedging reserve and costs of hedging reserve
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                Foreign Currency Risk
                                                                                 Foreign exchange Foreign exchange
Derivative Instrument                                                            forward contracts options                       Total



(i) Cash flow hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2017                                                                    –               200.27       200.27
Add: Change in fair value of foreign exchange forward contract                                13.11                    –         13.11
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                       –               158.85        158.85
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                  (3.21)             (352.47)      (355.68)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                     (3.46)               66.63          63.17
Balance – As at 31 March 2018                                                                 6.44                73.28         79.72
Add: Change in fair value of foreign exchange forward contract                             (196.29)                    –      (196.29)
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                       –                (47.41)       (47.41)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                 186.39                27.48        213.87
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                      3.46                  6.96         10.42
Balance – As at 31 March 2019                                                                    –                60.31         60.31


(ii) Costs of hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2017                                                                    –               (64.67)      (64.67)
Less: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                           –                23.97          23.97
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                      –                 12.70         12.70
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                         –               (12.48)       (12.48)
Balance – As at 31 March 2018                                                                    –               (40.48)      (40.48)
Add: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                            –                29.09          29.09
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                      –                  6.27          6.27
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                         –               (12.35)       (12.35)
Balance – As at 31 March 2019                                                                    –               (17.47)      (17.47)

(ii) Other risks

The Company has deployed its surplus funds into various financial instruments including units of mutual funds, bonds, fixed maturity
plans etc. The Company is exposed to price risk on such investments; which arises on account of movement in interest rates,
liquidity and credit quality of underlying securities.

The Company has invested its surplus funds primarily in debt based mutual funds and fixed maturity plans. The value of investment
in these mutual fund schemes is reflected though Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Management Company on daily basis.
The Company has not performed a sensitivity analysis on these mutual funds based on estimated fluctuations in their NAV as in
Management’s opinion, such analysis would not display a correct picture.




                                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          171
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      33 Capital management
      a) Objectives, policies and processes of capital management

      The Company is cash surplus and has no capital other than Equity. The Company is not exposed to any regulatory imposed
      capital requirements.

      The cash surpluses are currently invested in income generating debt instruments (including through mutual funds) and money
      market instruments depending on economic conditions in line with the guidelines set out by the Management. Safety of capital is of
      prime importance to ensure availability of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate return on the
      surplus funds.

      ‘The Company does not have any borrowings and does not borrow funds unless circumstances require.
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                           31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                        2019              2018



      Equity                                                                                                         21,779.90        19,103.86
      Less: Tangible and other assets                                                                                 2,008.04         2,156.63
           Working capital                                                                                              612.50          (641.07)
           Investments in subsidiaries                                                                                1,222.72         1,222.72
      Investments in debt and similar investments                                                                    17,936.64        16,365.58

      No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes of capital management during the year.

      b) Dividends distributed and proposed
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                           31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                        2019              2018



      Dividends recognised in the financial statements
      Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2018 of H 60 (31 March 2017 - H 55) per equity share,
      declared and paid                                                                                               1,736.20         1,591.52


      Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
      Directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of H 60 per equity share
      (31 March 2018 – H 60). This proposed dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders in
      the ensuing annual general meeting.                                                                             1,736.20         1,736.20




172   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
34 Contingent liabilities
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2019             2018



a   Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts                                                                453.30            451.53
b   Excise and Customs demand - matters under dispute and claims for refund of Excise Duty, if any, against
    Excise Duty Refund received in the earlier year                                                                     375.61            384.74
c   Income-tax matters                                                                                                   829.41           756.69
d   Value Added Tax (VAT)/Sales Tax matters under dispute                                                                126.74           126.74
e   Claims made by temporary workmen
    Pending before various judicial/appellate authorities in respect of similar matters adjudicated by the
    Supreme Court. The matter is contingent on the facts and evidence presented before the courts/                     Liability     Liability
    adjudicating authorities and not necessarily likely to be influenced by the Supreme Court’s order             unascertained unascertained
f   There are numerous interpretative issues relating to the Supreme Court judgment on provident
    fund dated 28 February 2019. Based on Company’s evaluation of the provision on a prospective basis,
    the impact is not material.

In all the cases mentioned above, outflow is not probable and hence not provided by the Company.



35 Capital commitments
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2019             2018



Capital commitments, net of capital advances                                                                             68.82             51.82



36 Segment information
Segment information based on consolidated financial statements is given in note 35 to consolidated financial statements, which are
attached to these financial statements.

The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.

The business segments comprise the following:
i. Automotive
ii. Investments
iii. Others




                                                                                                              12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19            173
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      37 Employee benefits
      Liability for employee benefits has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in conformity with the principles set
      out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.
      Funded schemes
      Gratuity
      The Company provides for gratuity payments to employees. The gratuity benefit payable to the employees of the Company is greater
      of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Company’s gratuity scheme. Employees who are in continuous service
      for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to approved
      gratuity fund.
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                       2019              2018



      Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
      Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                                              554.29             510.19
      Fair value of plan assets                                                                                      (542.28)           (401.20)
      Net funded obligation                                                                                             12.01           108.99


      Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
      Current service cost                                                                                              27.06             25.38
      Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                  4.96              3.06
      Total expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                            32.02              28.44


      Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
      Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                             44.14             21.94
      Remeasurements during the period due to:
          Changes in financial assumptions                                                                               2.02            (15.73)
          Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                             0.17                 –
          Experience adjustments                                                                                         2.03             31.13
          Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                      1.95              6.80
      Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                            50.31              44.14


                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                       2019              2018



      Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
      Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                    108.99             74.18
      Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                   32.02             28.44
      Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                             6.17             22.20
      Employer contributions                                                                                          (135.17)           (15.83)
      Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                     12.01           108.99




174   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                           As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                2019              2018



Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                     510.19            452.75
Current service cost                                                                       27.06             25.38
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                      37.12            31.37
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions                      2.02            (15.73)
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in demographic assumptions                     0.17                –
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience changes                          2.03             31.13
Benefits paid                                                                             (24.30)           (14.71)
Closing of defined benefit obligation                                                     554.29            510.19


                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                           As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                2019              2018



Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                         401.20            378.57
Employer contributions                                                                    135.17             15.83
Interest on plan assets                                                                    32.16             28.31
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                              (1.95)            (6.80)
Benefits paid                                                                             (24.30)           (14.71)
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                         542.28            401.20


                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                           As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                2019              2018



Disaggregation of assets
Category of assets
Insurer managed funds                                                                     542.28            401.20
Others                                                                                         –                 –
Grand Total                                                                               542.28            401.20




                                                                                 12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           175
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
      Funded schemes (Contd.)
      Gratuity (Contd.)
      Sensitivity Analysis
      Gratuity is a lump sum plan and the cost of providing these benefits is typically less sensitive to small changes in demographic
      assumptions. The key actuarial assumptions to which the benefit obligation results are particularly sensitive to are discount rate and
      future salary escalation rate. The following table summarises the impact in percentage terms on the reported defined benefit obligation
      at the end of the reporting period arising on account of an increase or decrease in the reported assumption by 50 basis points.

                                                                                                     As at 31 March 2019         As at 31 March 2018
                                                                                                                       Salary                    Salary
                                                                                                      Discount      escalation    Discount    escalation
      Particulars                                                                                         rate            rate        rate          rate


      Senior staff
          Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                           (3.34%)         3.45%      (3.37%)           3.48%
          Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                            3.55%         (3.29%)       3.57%          (3.32%)
      Junior staff
          Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                           (3.69%)         3.90%      (3.82%)           4.02%
          Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                            4.00%         (3.63%)       4.13%          (3.76%)
      These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in defined benefit obligation in isolation and assuming there are no
      other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. There have been no changes from the previous periods in the methods
      and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses.
      Funding arrangement and policy
      The money contributed by the Company to the fund to finance the liabilities of the plan has to be invested.
      The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to insurance companies. The insurance companies in turn
      manage these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is within the permissible limits
      prescribed in the insurance regulations.
      There is no compulsion on the part of the Company to fully pre fund the liability of the Plan. The Company’s philosophy is to fund the benefits
      based on its own liquidity and tax position as well as level of under funding of the plan.
      The expected contribution payable to the plan next year is H 50 crore.
      Projected plan cash flow
      The table below shows the expected cash flow profile of the benefits to be paid to the current membership of the plan:
                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                       Less than      Between        Between          Over
      Particulars                                                                         a year     1-2 years      3-5 years      5 years           Total


      31 March 2019
      Senior staff                                                                         48.35          14.08          61.92      363.92          488.27
      Junior staff                                                                          35.95         33.11         127.71      508.95          705.72


      31 March 2018
      Senior staff                                                                          39.37         17.61         48.09       326.68          431.75
      Junior staff                                                                         23.32          23.96        120.30       512.47          680.05

                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
      Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in years)                                                           2019               2018


      Senior staff                                                                                                                  6.88                6.94
      Junior staff                                                                                                                  7.68                7.93


176   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                  Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                         2019                2018


Principal actuarial assumptions (Expressed as weighted averages)


Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                                               7.70%               7.75%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account, inflation, seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand
and supply in the employment market.

Provident Fund
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                         2019                2018


Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                                                                               1,184.13           1,047.83
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                                                      (1,184.13)         (1,047.83)
Net funded obligation                                                                                                                                    –                     –


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                                                                34.08              28.48
Administration expenses                                                                                                                                  –                     –
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                                                        –                     –
(Gains)/losses on settlement                                                                                                                             –                     –
Total expenses charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                             34.08               28.48


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                    –                     –
Remeasurements during the period due to
    Changes in financial assumptions                                                                                                                     –                     –
    Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                                                                   –                     –
    Experience adjustments                                                                                                                           6.65                8.22
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                                                       (6.65)             (8.22)
    Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                                                                  –                     –
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                    –                     –


Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                                                            –                     –
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                                     34.08              28.48
Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                                   –                     –
Employer contributions                                                                                                                            (34.08)             (28.48)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                                                            –                     –



                                                                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                     177
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
      Funded schemes (Contd.)
      Provident Fund (Contd.)
                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                             As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                             2019             2018


      Movement in benefit obligation
      Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                1,047.83           931.68
      Current service cost                                                                   34.08             28.48
      Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                  81.69            68.73
      Remeasurements due to:
          Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience changes                       6.65             8.22
      Employee contributions                                                                 68.38             59.50
      Benefits paid                                                                         (55.59)           (50.12)
      Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                            1.09              1.34
      Closing defined benefit obligation                                                   1,184.13        1,047.83


      Movement in plan assets
      Opening fair value of plan assets                                                    1,047.83           931.68
      Interest on plan assets                                                                 81.69            68.73
      Remeasurements due to:
          Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                            6.65             8.22
      Employer contributions during the period                                               34.08             28.48
      Employee contributions during the period                                               68.38             59.50
      Benefits paid                                                                         (55.59)           (50.12)
      Assets acquired/(settled)                                                                1.09              1.34
      Closing fair value of plan assets                                                    1,184.13        1,047.83

                                                                                                      As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                              2019


      Disaggregation of assets
      Quoted
      Property                                                                                                      –
      Government debt instruments                                                                             615.17
      Other debt instruments                                                                                  391.51
      Entity's own equity instruments                                                                               –
      Insurer managed funds                                                                                         –
      Others                                                                                                  177.45
      Total                                                                                                 1,184.13


                                                                                             As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                             2019             2018

      Key actuarial assumptions
      Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                   7.70%            7.75%
      Future derived return on assets (p.a.)                                                 8.68%            8.64%
      Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment (p.a.)              7.35%            7.65%
      Average historic yield on the investment (p.a.)                                        8.33%            8.54%
      Guaranteed rate of return (p.a.)                                                       8.65%            8.55%



178   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                   Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Unfunded Schemes
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                As at 31 March 2019          As at 31 March 2018
                                                                              Compensated       Welfare    Compensated       Welfare
Particulars                                                                      Absences       Scheme        Absences       Scheme



Present value of unfunded obligations                                                118.25        3.07          106.42           3.71
Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss                                24.39        0.38            16.57          0.42
Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income                                                     (0.70)                         (0.59)
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                  7.70%       7.70%           7.75%          7.75%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) – senior staff                                        10.00%          N.A.         10.00%           N.A.
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) – junior staff                                        10.00%          N.A.         10.00%           N.A.


Compensated absences

The compensated absences cover the Company’s liability for casual and earned leave.

Entire amount of the provision is presented as current, since the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement
for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company does not expect all employees to take the full amount
of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months. The following amounts reflect leave that is not expected to be taken
or paid within the next 12 months.
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2019            2018



Compensated absences expected to be settled after 12 months                                                    102.64            93.47


                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2019            2018



Amount recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Defined contribution plans:
    Superannuation paid to trust                                                                                  9.46            9.07
    Pension fund paid to Government authorities                                                                  12.41           12.38
    Others                                                                                                        1.62            1.46
Defined benefit plans:
    Gratuity                                                                                                    32.02            28.44
    Provident fund paid to trust                                                                                34.08            28.48
    Others                                                                                                       0.83             0.72
Total                                                                                                           90.42            80.55




                                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           179
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
         Indian Accounting Standard 24
                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                                  2018-19                         2017-18
                                                                                                                                           Outstanding
                                                                                                                                              amounts                        Outstanding
                                                                                                                           Transaction       carried in   Transaction   amounts carried
      Name of related party and nature of relationship         Nature of transaction                                             value   Balance Sheet          value   in Balance Sheet



      A Subsidiaries:
         PT.Bajaj Auto Indonesia (99.25% shares held by
         Bajaj Auto Ltd.)                                      Contribution to equity (411,875 shares of USD 3 each)                –              6.17            –                6.17
                                                               Provision for diminution in value of investment                      –            (2.17)            –               (2.17)
                                                               Write-down of investment                                             –                –        199.41                   –
                                                               Provision for diminution written-back                                –                –        199.41                   –


         Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV Amsterdam        Contribution to equity
         Netherlands (Fully owned subsidiary)                  (1,980,000 shares of Euro 100 each)                                  –          1,218.72            –            1,218.72
                                                               Dividend received                                                 94.36               –        135.07                   –


      B Associates, joint ventures and investing parties:
         Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. (Investing party -   Purchase of shares by BHIL [96,727,050 shares
         holds 33.43% shares of Bajaj Auto Ltd.)               (Previous year 91,280,000) of H 10 each]                             –           (96.73)            –             (91.28)
                                                               Purchase of shares by BAL [2,910,050 shares of H 10 each]            –           909.91             –                   –
                                                               Dividend paid                                                    547.68               –        502.04                   –
                                                               Business support service received                                  1.98               –           1.55                  –
                                                               Business support service rendered                                 12.52               –          15.26                  –


      C Key management personnel and their relatives:
         Rahul Bajaj (Chairman)                                Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)               10.63           (6.75)         10.79              (6.75)
                                                               Post-employment benefits                                           0.80               –           0.80                  –
                                                               Rent paid for premises                                             0.20               –           0.17                  –
                                                               Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                       0.90            3.60             –                2.70
         Rajiv Bajaj (Managing Director)                       Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)               29.95          (20.02)         26.27            (17.41)
                                                               Post-employment benefits                                           2.36               –           2.05                  –
                                                               Rent paid for premises                                             1.99               –           1.98                  –
                                                               Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                       0.90             1.92            –                2.82
         Pradeep Shrivastava (Executive Director)              Short-term employee benefits                                       6.05               –           3.78                  –
                                                               Post-employment benefits                                           0.61               –           0.43                  –
         Rakesh Sharma (Executive Director)                    Short-term employee benefits                                       4.99               –           3.61                  –
                                                               Post-employment benefits                                           0.49               –           0.44                  –
         Madhur Bajaj (Vice Chairman)                          Rent paid for premises                                             0.27               –           0.05                  –
                                                               Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                       3.52            4.40             –                0.88
                                                               Sitting fees                                                       0.08               –           0.08                  –
                                                               Commission                                                         0.12           (0.12)          0.12              (0.12)
         Sanjiv Bajaj                                          Sitting fees                                                       0.08               –           0.08                  –
                                                               Commission                                                         0.12           (0.12)          0.12              (0.12)
         Shekhar Bajaj                                         Sitting fees                                                       0.06               –           0.07                  –
                                                               Commission                                                         0.09           (0.09)          0.11              (0.11)
                                                               Rent paid for premises                                               –                –           0.16                  –
                                                               Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                       2.64               –             –                2.64
         Niraj Bajaj                                           Sitting Fees                                                       0.08               –           0.08                  –
                                                               Commission                                                         0.12           (0.12)          0.12              (0.12)
                                                               Rent paid for premises                                                –               –           0.05                  –
                                                               Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                       0.88               –              –               0.88




180   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                               2018-19                         2017-18
                                                                                                                                        Outstanding
                                                                                                                                           amounts                        Outstanding
                                                                                                                        Transaction       carried in   Transaction   amounts carried
Name of related party and nature of relationship   Nature of transaction                                                      value   Balance Sheet          value   in Balance Sheet



D Other entities/persons:
   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                              Purchase of windpower                                                      13.82               –           7.68                  –
                                                   Business support service rendered                                           0.41               –           0.30                  –
   Bajaj Finance Ltd.                              Purchase of shares by BFL (150 shares of H 10 each) - H 1,500                 –                              –
                                                   Subvention charges paid                                                     9.88            0.86          23.78              (1.91)
                                                   Service rendered                                                          25.68                –          26.55               0.78
                                                   Service received                                                            0.20               –           0.51                  –
                                                   Security deposit received                                                     –            (0.21)            –               (0.21)
                                                   Dividend paid (H 9,000, previous year - H 8,250)                                               –                                 –
   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.        Insurance premiums paid                                                    15.89            4.68          10.98               4.21
                                                   Claims received                                                             0.01               –             –                   –
   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.           Insurance premiums paid                                                     1.16               –           1.01              (0.01)
                                                   Purchase of shares by BALIC (125,000 shares of H 10 each)                     –            (0.13)            –               (0.13)
                                                   Dividend paid                                                               0.75               –           0.69                  –
   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.                      Services rendered                                                           0.01               –             –                   –
                                                   Security deposit received                                                   0.02           (0.02)            –                   –
   Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                          Purchases                                                                   0.05           (0.25)          0.55              (0.22)
   Hind Musafir Agency Ltd.                        Services received                                                          20.71           (1.06)         18.66              (1.46)
   Hindustan Housing Co. Ltd.                      Maintenance charges paid                                                    0.26           (0.07)          0.20                  –
   KTM AG                                          Sale of vehicles and material                                             414.62          (46.42)       405.86               (4.38)
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                          0.16               –             –                   –
                                                   Purchase of accessories and other credits                                   2.65               –           1.51                  –
   KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH                        Sale of vehicles and material                                            382.62          (149.06)       425.64             (11.03)
                                                   Royalty paid and payable                                                   13.99           (3.27)          9.48              (2.05)
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                          0.08               –           0.23                  –
                                                   Purchase of accessories and other credits                                   5.03               –           0.12                  –
   KTM Southeast Europe A.E.                       Sale of vehicles and material (H 13,506, previous year - H 13,506)          0.44                           0.43
   KTM Southeast Europe S.A.                       Sale of vehicles and material (H 19,151, previous year - H 12,955)            –                            0.41
   KTM Sportmotorcycle India Pvt. Ltd.             Royalty paid and payable                                                    8.05           (0.56)          9.21              (1.74)
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                          2.25               –           2.35                  –
   Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                       Purchase of shares by MSL (6,774,072 shares of H 10 each)                     –            (6.77)            –               (6.77)
                                                   Dividend paid                                                             40.64                –          37.26                  –
                                                   Purchases                                                                   0.31               –           0.16                  –
                                                   Sales (including capital asset)                                               –                –           0.33                  –
                                                   Services rendered                                                           0.12           (0.04)          0.10               0.04
   Mukand Ltd.                                     Purchases                                                                     –                –           0.03                  –
   CERG Advisory Pvt. Ltd.                         Services received                                                           0.10               –           0.09                  –
   Bajaj Auto Charitable Trust                     CSR payment                                                                 0.25               –             –                   –
   Bajaj Auto Employees Group Gratuity Fund        Gratuity contribution                                                      61.50               –           0.50                  –
   Bajaj Auto Senior Staff Group Gratuity Fund     Gratuity contribution                                                      74.50               –          16.05                  –
   Bajaj Auto Employees Superannuation Fund        Superannuation contribution                                                 9.46           (0.20)          9.07               1.00
   Bajaj Auto Limited Provident Fund               Provident fund contribution (Employer's share)                            34.08           (10.05)         28.48              (9.35)




                                                                                                                                           12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                    181
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
         Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                                                                                             2018-19                                            2017-18
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                                                                            amounts                                          Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                                                  Transaction              carried in               Transaction         amounts carried
      Name of related party and nature of relationship                            Nature of transaction                                                                                 value          Balance Sheet                      value         in Balance Sheet



          D J Balaji Rao                                                          Sitting fees                                                                                               0.18                        –                    0.15                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                0.27                   (0.27)                     0.23                     (0.23)
          D S Mehta                                                               Sitting fees                                                                                              0.04                         –                    0.06                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                0.06                   (0.06)                     0.09                     (0.09)
          Naresh Chandra                                                          Sitting fees                                                                                                  –                        –                    0.03                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                    –                        –                    0.05                     (0.05)
          Nanoo Pamnani                                                           Sitting fees                                                                                               0.13                        –                    0.11                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                0.50                   (0.50)                     0.37                     (0.37)
          Manish Kejriwal                                                         Sitting fees                                                                                              0.04                         –                    0.07                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                0.06                   (0.06)                     0.11                     (0.11)
          P Murari                                                                Sitting fees                                                                                              0.04                         –                    0.03                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                0.06                   (0.06)                     0.05                     (0.05)
          Dr. Gita Piramal                                                        Sitting fees                                                                                               0.17                        –                    0.15                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                0.26                    (0.26)                    0.23                     (0.23)
          Naushad D Forbes                                                        Sitting fees                                                                                               0.15                        –                    0.09                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                0.23                   (0.23)                     0.14                     (0.14)
          Omkar Goswami                                                           Sitting fees                                                                                              0.08                         –                    0.08                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                 0.12                   (0.12)                    0.12                     (0.12)
          Anami Roy                                                               Sitting fees                                                                                              0.08                         –                    0.06                             –
                                                                                  Commission                                                                                                 0.12                   (0.12)                    0.09                     (0.09)
      Name of the related party and nature of the related party relationship where control exists have been disclosed irrespective of whether or not there have been transactions between the related parties. In other cases, disclosure has been made only when there have
      been transactions with those parties.
      Related parties as defined under clause 9 of the Indian Accounting Standard - 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ have been identified based on representations made by key managerial personnel and information available with the Company.
      All above transactions are in the ordinary course of business and on arms’ length basis. All outstanding balances are unsecured and are repayable in cash.




182   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                   Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
39 Lease
As a lessor:

The Company has given premises on operating leases. These lease arrangements range for a period between eleven months to
ten years and include both cancellable and non cancellable leases. Most of the leases are renewable for further period on mutually
agreeable terms and also include escalation clauses.

The total future minimum lease rentals receivable at the Balance Sheet date is as under:
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2019             2018



Receivable
Within one year                                                                                                 24.27             23.93
After one year but not more than five years                                                                     40.52             62.98
More than five years                                                                                              1.12                  –
                                                                                                                65.91             86.91

As a lessee:

The Company has operating leases for premises. These lease arrangements range for a period between one to ninety years which
include both cancellable and non cancellable leases. Most of the leases are renewable for further period on mutually agreeable
terms and also include escalation clauses.

The total future minimum lease rentals payable at the Balance Sheet date is as under:
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2019             2018



Payable
Within one year                                                                                                  11.23            11.28
After one year but not more than five years                                                                     16.85             19.21
More than five years                                                                                            14.25             15.07
                                                                                                                42.33            45.56



40 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2019             2018



a   Revenue expenditure - charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                              392.35            334.11
b   Revenue expenditure - capitalised                                                                           20.78             13.78
c   Capital expenditure - excluding building                                                                    43.22             24.80
d   Capital expenditure - building                                                                                   –                  –
                                                                                                               456.35            372.69




                                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19              183
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)

      41 Considering the Company has been extended credit period upto 45 days by its vendors and payments being released on a timely
          basis, there is no liability towards interest on delayed payments under ‘The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development
          Act 2006’ during the year. There is also no amount of outstanding interest in this regard, brought forward from previous years.
          Information in this regard is on basis of intimation received, on requests made by the Company, with regards to registration of
          vendors under the said Act.

      42 Post the applicability of GST with effect from 1 July 2017, Revenue from operations (i.e. Sales) are required to be disclosed net of
          GST. Sales before this date are disclosed as gross of excise duty. Accordingly, Revenue from operations for the current year is not
          comparable with the previous year.

      43 During previous year, the Company has written-off its investment in PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia, to the extent of H 199.41 crore
          (USD 39.95 million), consequential to a share capital reduction effected in PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia to the same extent.
          The transaction has been approved by the Reserve Bank of India vide its letter dtd. 22 March 2018. Accordingly, the Company
          has reversed an amount of H 199.41 crore from provision for diminution in the value of investments to the Statement of
          Profit and Loss for the previous year ended 31 March 2018.

      44 Standards issued but not yet effective
      The amendments to standards that are issued, but not yet effective, upto the date of issuance of the Company’s financial statements
      are disclosed below. The Company intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.

      The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2019 and
      Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2019 introducing/amending the following standards:

      Ind AS 116 Leases

      Ind AS 116 Leases was notified in March 2019 and it replaces Ind AS 17 Leases, including appendices thereto. Ind AS 116 is
      effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1April 2019. Ind AS 116 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement,
      presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model similar
      to the accounting for finance leases under Ind AS 17. The standard includes two recognition exemptions for lessees – leases of
      ‘low-value’ assets (e.g., personal computers) and short-term leases (i.e., leases with a lease term of 12 months or less). At the
      commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability to make lease payments (i.e., the lease liability) and an asset
      representing the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term (i.e., the right-of-use asset). Lessees will be required to
      separately recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset.

      Lessees will be also required to remeasure the lease liability upon the occurrence of certain events (e.g., a change in the lease term,
      a change in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine those payments). The lessee will
      generally recognise the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset.

      Lessor accounting under Ind AS 116 is substantially unchanged from today’s accounting under Ind AS 17. Lessors will continue to
      classify all leases using the same classification principle as in Ind AS 17 and distinguish between two types of leases: operating and
      finance leases.

      The Company intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective. As the Company does not have any
      material leases, the adoption of this standard is not likely to have a material impact in its Standalone Financial Statements.
      Based on an assessment done by the Company, its right to use assets & financial liabilities are expected to increase by approx.
      H 30 crore with nominal impact in reserves.

      Appendix C to Ind AS 12 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment

      The interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of
      Ind AS 12 and does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope of Ind AS 12, nor does it specifically include requirements relating
      to interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. The Interpretation specifically addresses the following:

      l   Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately

      l   The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities

      l   How an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates

      l   How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances



184   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Standalone Financial Statements



Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
44 Standards issued but not yet effective (Contd.)
An entity has to determine whether to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or together with one or more other uncertain
tax treatments. The approach that better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty should be followed. In determining the approach
that better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty, an entity might consider, for example, (a) how it prepares its income tax filings
and supports tax treatments; or (b) how the entity expects the taxation authority to make its examination and resolve issues that
might arise from that examination.

The interpretation is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2019, but certain transition reliefs are
available. The Company will apply the interpretation from its effective date. Based on the Company’s preliminary evaluation,
these amendments have no impact on the financial statements of the Company.

Amendments to Ind AS 109: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation

Under Ind AS 109, a debt instrument can be measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income,
provided that the contractual cash flows are ‘solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding’ (the SPPI
criterion) and the instrument is held within the appropriate business model for that classification. The amendments to Ind AS 109
clarify that a financial asset passes the SPPI criterion regardless of the event or circumstance that causes the early termination of
the contract and irrespective of which party pays or receives reasonable compensation for the early termination of the contract.

The amendments should be applied retrospectively and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2019.
These amendments have no impact on the financial statements of the Company.

Amendments to Ind AS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement

The amendments to Ind AS 19 addresses the accounting when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during a
reporting period. The amendments specify that when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during the annual
reporting period, an entity is required to:

l   Determine current service cost for the remainder of the period after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement, using the
    actuarial assumptions used to remeasure the net defined benefit liability/(asset) reflecting the benefits offered under the plan
    and the plan assets after that event.

l   Determine net interest for the remainder of the period after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement using: the net defined
    benefit liability/(asset) reflecting the benefits offered under the plan and the plan assets after that event; and the discount rate
    used to remeasure that net defined benefit liability/(asset).

The amendments also clarify that an entity first determines any past service cost, or a gain or loss on settlement, without considering
the effect of the asset ceiling. This amount is recognised in profit or loss.

An entity then determines the effect of the asset ceiling after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement. Any change in that
effect, excluding amounts included in the net interest, is recognised in other comprehensive income.

The amendments apply to plan amendments, curtailments, or settlements occurring on or after the beginning of the first
annual reporting period that begins on or after 1 April 2019. These amendments will apply only to any future plan amendments,
curtailments, or settlements of the Company.

Annual improvement to Ind AS (2018);

These improvements include:

Amendments to Ind AS 12: Income Taxes

The amendments clarify that the income tax consequences of dividends are linked more directly to past transactions or events
that generated distributable profits than to distributions to owners. Therefore, an entity recognises the income tax consequences
of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or equity according to where the entity originally recognised those past
transactions or events.




                                                                                                         12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         185
      Standalone Financial Statements



      Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      44 Standards issued but not yet effective (Contd.)
      An entity applies those amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2019. Since the Company’s current
      practice is in line with these amendments, the Company does not expect any effect on its consolidated financial statements.

      Amendments to Ind AS 23: Borrowing Costs

      The amendments clarify that an entity treats as part of general borrowings any borrowing originally made to develop a qualifying
      asset when substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare that asset for its intended use or sale are complete.

      An entity applies those amendments to borrowing costs incurred on or after the beginning of the annual reporting period in which
      the entity first applies those amendments. An entity applies those amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after
      1 April 2019. Since the Company’s current practice is in line with these amendments, the Company does not expect any effect on its
      consolidated financial statements.


      45 Miscellaneous
          Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.


      As per our report of even date                                                                      On behalf of the Board of Directors


      For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                   Rahul Bajaj
      Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                    Chairman
      ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                   Kevin D’sa                                      Rajiv Bajaj
      per Arvind Sethi                                       Chief Financial Officer                            Managing Director
      Partner
      Membership Number: 89802                                    Dr. J Sridhar                                  Nanoo Pamnani
      Pune: 17 May 2019                                        Company Secretary                           Chairman - Audit Committee




186   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
                                                                                                    Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements
To the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS financial statements of Bajaj Auto Limited (hereinafter referred to as
‘the Holding Company’), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’) and its
associate comprising of the consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2019, the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss,
including other comprehensive income, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting
policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as ‘consolidated financial statements’).

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of
reports of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and associate,
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (‘the Act’)
in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and its associate as at 31 March 2019, their consolidated profit including other
comprehensive income, their consolidated cash flows and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended
on that date.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the
‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2019. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled
the responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our
report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond
to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements. The results of audit procedures
performed by us and by other auditors of components not audited by us, as reported by them in their audit reports furnished to us by
the Management, including those procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.




                                                                                                       12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          189
      Consolidated Financial Statements




      Independent Auditors’ Report on the
      Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
      Key audit matters                                                   How our audit addressed the key audit matter

      Accounting for investments (as described in note 5 of the consolidated financial statements)
      The Holding Company has investments aggregating                     Our audit procedures included the following:
      H 17,936.64 crore in equity shares, bonds, liquid mutual funds,     l   Read the minutes of the meetings of the Investment Committee.
      short term funds, fixed maturity plans (‘FMPs’) and commercial
                                                                          l   Performed test of controls on a sample basis on the operating
      papers as at 31 March 2019. These investments are measured
                                                                              effectiveness of internal controls on investments.
      either at amortised cost, Fair Value through Profit and Loss
      (‘FVTPL’) or Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income          l   Tested on a sample basis, the investments underlying the FMPs to
      (‘FVTOCI’) based on fulfilment of required criteria which involve       ascertain whether those investments would satisfy the conditions
      management judgment. Of the above total investments,                    of Ind AS.
      the Holding Company’s investments in FMPs as at                     l   Compared on a sample basis the indicative yields used by the Holding
      31 March 2019 amounted to H 12,338.10 crore (63% of total               Company for accounting for interest income on amortised cost basis, with
      investments). These investments were measured at FVTPL till             the actual yields earned by the Holding Company on those FMPs at the
      31 March 2018.                                                          time of redemption.
      The Holding Company applies amortised cost, where it has            l   Tested on a sample basis the portfolio churn in case of FMPs to ascertain
      ability to demonstrate that the underlying instruments in the           whether majority of the instruments in the FMP are held till maturity.
      portfolio fulfill the solely payments of principal and interest
                                                                          l   Obtained management representations on the judgments exercised,
      (‘SPPI’) test and the churn in the portfolio is negligible.
                                                                              including indicative yields and maturity periods considered for amortised
      As these conditions have been fulfilled effective from
                                                                              cost workings.
      1 April 2018, the Holding Company, has classified FMPs,
      as subsequently measured at amortised cost.                         l   Tested the disclosures made by the Holding Company.

      Other information

      The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
      included in the Chairman’s Letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not
      include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

      Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
      assurance conclusion thereon.

      In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and in doing
      so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge
      obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
      there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

      Responsibilities of management for the consolidated financial statements

      The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial
      statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position,
      consolidated financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement
      of changes in equity of the Group including its associate in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
      including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian
      Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and
      of its associate are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for
      safeguarding of the assets of the Group and of its associate and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;
      selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
      and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring
      the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial
      statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been
      used for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.

      In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of
      its associate are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of its associate to continue as a going concern, disclosing,
      as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends
      to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

      Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are also responsible for overseeing
      the financial reporting process of the Group and of its associate.




190   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                     Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors’ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:

l   Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
    design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
    provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
    resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override
    of internal control.

l   Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
    the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding
    Company has adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.

l   Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
    made by Management.

l   Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence
    obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of
    the Group and its associate to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to
    draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are
    inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
    However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to cease to continue as a going concern.

l   Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures and
    whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
    fair presentation.

l   Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
    Group and its associate of which we are the independent auditors and whose financial information we have audited, to express an
    opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit
    of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent
    auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors,
    such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them.
    We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated
financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2019 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           191
      Consolidated Financial Statements




      Independent Auditors’ Report on the
      Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
      Other matter

      We did not audit the financial statements and other financial information, in respect of a subsidiary, whose Ind AS financial
      statements include total assets of H 0.93 crore as at 31 March 2019, and total revenues of H Nil and net cash outflows of H 2.06 crore
      for the year ended on that date. These financial statement and other financial information have been audited by other auditors,
      which financial statements, other financial information and auditors’ reports have been furnished to us by the Management.
      The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of H 349.75 crore for the year ended
      31 March 2019, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of an associate, whose financial statements,
      other financial information have been audited by other auditors and whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management.
      Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect
      of such subsidiary and associate and our report in terms of sub-sections (3) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the
      aforesaid subsidiary and associate, is based solely on the reports of such other auditors.

      The subsidiary and associate are located outside India whose financial statements and other financial information have been
      prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries and which have been audited by
      other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries. The Company’s Management
      has converted the financial statements of such subsidiary and associate located outside India from accounting principles generally
      accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have audited these conversion
      adjustments made by the Company’s management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiary
      and associate located outside India is based on the report of other auditors and the conversion adjustments prepared by the
      Management of the Company and audited by us.

      Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, and our Report on other legal and regulatory requirements below,
      is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors
      and the financial statements and other financial information certified by the Management.

      Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

      As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on separate
      financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiary and associate, as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph we
      report, to the extent applicable, that:

      (a) We/the other auditors whose report we have relied upon have sought and obtained all the information and explanations
          which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated
          financial statements;

      (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidation of the financial
          statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and reports of the other auditors;

      (c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive
          Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in
          agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements;

      (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under section 133
          of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

      (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2019 taken on
          record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, none of the directors of the Holding Company is disqualified as on
          31 March 2019 from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 (2) of the Act. The Holding Company did not have any
          subsidiary or an associate company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India;

      (f) With respect to the adequacy and the operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over financial reporting with
          reference to these consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies and associate
          company, since none of the subsidiary companies and associate company are incorporated in India, no separate report is
          being issued with reference to these consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. Also refer Annexure 2 to the
          independent auditors’ report dated 17 May 2019, issued on the standalone financial statements of the Holding Company regarding
          internal controls over financial reporting;




192   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors’ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
(g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2019 has been paid/provided by the Holding Company
    to their directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. The Holding Company did not
    have any subsidiary or an associate company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India;

(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and
    Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to
    us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial statements as also the other financial
    information of the subsidiary and associate, as noted in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:

   i.   The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on its consolidated financial position of the
        Group and its associate in its consolidated financial statements – Refer Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements;

   ii. Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting
       standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 32 to the
       consolidated financial statements;

   iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by
        the Holding Company during the year ended 31 March 2019. The Holding Company did not have any subsidiary or an associate
        company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003


per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Pune: 17 May 2019




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        193
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Consolidated Balance Sheet
                                                                         (H In Crore)

                                                             As at 31 March

      Particulars                              Note No.       2019              2018



      ASSETS
      Non-current assets
      Property, plant and equipment               2        1,688.69       1,821.22
      Capital work-in-progress                    2           11.54              11.15
      Investment property                         3           55.50              57.11
      Intangible assets                           4           19.75                 –
      Intangible assets under development         4           36.48             45.32
      Investments in associate of subsidiary     5A        2,666.21       2,528.99
      Financial assets
         Investments                             5B       16,360.16      10,600.17
         Trade receivables                       10              –                  –
         Loans                                    6           31.66             30.68
         Other financial assets                   7            0.02              0.02
      Income tax assets (net)                                584.41            438.66
      Other non-current assets                    8          306.83            356.85
                                                          21,761.25     15,890.17


      Current assets
      Inventories                                 9          961.51            742.58
      Financial assets
         Investments                             5B        1,576.48           5,765.41
         Trade receivables                       10        2,559.69           1,491.87
         Cash and cash equivalents               11          915.64            775.60
         Other bank balances                     12           17.43             17.06
         Loans                                    6            6.34              6.26
         Other financial assets                   7          112.94             79.36
      Other current assets                        8          923.13            372.69
                                                           7,073.16       9,250.83
      Total                                               28,834.41     25,141.00




194   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                               Consolidated Financial Statements



Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)

                                                                                                               As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                             Note No.               2019              2018



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                      13                  289.37            289.37
Other equity                                                                              14               22,944.44       20,135.87
Equity attributable to owners of the Company                                                              23,233.81       20,425.24
Non-controlling interest                                                                                        0.01              0.02
Total equity                                                                                              23,233.82       20,425.26


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                    15                  124.52            120.77
Provisions                                                                                16                   14.56            112.19
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                            17                  542.66            323.42
Government grant                                                                                               43.95             46.61
Other non-current liabilities                                                             18                     1.12             1.35
                                                                                                             726.81             604.34
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
         Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                      2.65              1.06
         Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and
         small enterprises                                                                                  3,784.18         3,243.36
     Other financial liabilities                                                          19                  370.97            329.26
Other current liabilities                                                                 20                  556.97            393.73
Provisions                                                                                16                  140.62            125.60
Government grant                                                                                                2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                  15.74             15.74
                                                                                                           4,873.78         4,111.40
Total                                                                                                     28,834.41       25,141.00
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                         1


 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements

 As per our report of even date                                                                    On behalf of the Board of Directors


 For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                            Rahul Bajaj
 Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                             Chairman
 ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                   Kevin D’sa                               Rajiv Bajaj
 per Arvind Sethi                                            Chief Financial Officer                     Managing Director
 Partner
 Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                            Nanoo Pamnani
 Pune: 17 May 2019                                            Company Secretary                     Chairman - Audit Committee




                                                                                                  12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19              195
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                               For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2019             2018


      Revenue from contracts with customers [See note 37]                                        29,567.25       25,098.64
      Other operating revenue                                                                       682.71           518.63
      Revenue from operations                                                         21         30,249.96        25,617.27
      Other income                                                                    22          1,555.01         1,158.26
      Total income                                                                              31,804.97        26,775.53


      Expenses
      Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              20,301.35        15,999.16
      Purchase of traded goods                                                                    1,579.38         1,401.25
      Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     23            (56.42)             9.68
      Excise duty [See note 37]                                                                           –          398.34
      Employee benefits expense                                                       24          1,256.89         1,069.48
      Finance costs                                                                   25               4.48             1.31
      Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           26            265.69           314.80
      Other expenses                                                                  27          2,219.87         1,927.78
      Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (30.10)          (24.07)
      Total expenses                                                                            25,541.14        21,097.73


      Share of profits of associate                                                                 349.75           287.61


      Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     6,613.58        5,965.41


      Exceptional items                                                               28           (342.00)           32.00


      Profit before tax                                                                           6,955.58        5,933.41


      Tax expense
          Current tax                                                                             1,818.59         1,646.36
          Deferred tax                                                                              209.39             68.11
      Total tax expense                                                               29          2,027.98         1,714.47


      Profit after tax                                                                            4,927.60        4,218.94


      Profit attributable to non-controlling interest                                                (0.01)            (0.01)


      Profit for the year                                                                         4,927.61        4,218.95




196   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Consolidated Financial Statements



Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                Note No.               2019             2018


Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                            (5.47)          (21.61)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                            1.91             7.62
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans - share of associate of subsidiary                          (3.11)            0.65
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                           84.33                   –
    Tax impact on above                                                                                          (9.82)                  –
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                                     5.54         (147.05)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                           (1.94)           50.69
    Other adjustments - share of associate of subsidiary                                                         (5.00)            11.30
    Change in foreign currency translation reserve of subsidiary                                               (111.79)          336.14


Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                        (45.35)          237.74


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                       4,882.26        4,456.69


Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                          4,927.61        4,218.95
Non-controlling interest                                                                                         (0.01)            (0.01)
                                                                                                              4,927.60         4,218.94


Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                         4,882.26         4,456.69
Non-controlling interest                                                                                         (0.01)            (0.01)
                                                                                                              4,882.25        4,456.68


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (In H)                                                  30                  170.3             145.8
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                            1


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements

As per our report of even date                                                                      On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                             Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                              Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                   Kevin D’sa                                Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                      Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                         Dr. J Sridhar                              Nanoo Pamnani
Pune: 17 May 2019                                             Company Secretary                       Chairman - Audit Committee




                                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19             197
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
      A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                            Note No.                       2019                  2018


      At the beginning of the year                                                                                                                                         289.37               289.37
      Changes in equity share capital                                                                                                                                          –                        –
      At the end of the year                                                                                                                       13                  289.37                  289.37

      B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   Attributable to owners
                                                                     Reserves and surplus                                  Other reserves
                                                                                                                           Foreign exchange           Foreign
                                                                                                 Cash flow    Costs of          difference of        currency                        Total          Non-
                                                                       General      Retained      hedging     hedging          subsidiary on       translation    FVTOCI             other    controlling
      Particulars                                         Note No.     reserve      earnings       reserve    reserve        paid-up capital          reserve    reserve            equity       interest



      Balance as at 1 April 2017                            14       4,793.84       12,562.56       200.27      (64.67)                     8.51         66.69        –       17,567.20              0.03


      Profit for the year                                                       –    4,218.95            –           –                        –              –        –        4,218.95             (0.01)
      Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                            11.95         (13.99)     (120.55)      24.19                  (8.26)          344.40        –          237.74                 –
      Total comprehensive income for the
      year ended 31 March 2018                                           11.95       4,204.96      (120.55)      24.19                  (8.26)          344.40        –        4,456.69             (0.01)


      Transactions with owners in their
      capacity as owners
      Transfer from Retained earnings to
      General reserve                                                   557.85       (557.85)            –           –                        –              –        –                 –               –
      Final dividend, declared and paid during the year                         –   (1,591.52)           –           –                        –              –        –       (1,591.52)                –
      Tax on final dividend                                                     –    (296.50)            –           –                        –              –        –         (296.50)                –
      Balance as at 31 March 2018                           14        5,363.64      14,321.65        79.72      (40.48)                     0.25        411.09        –       20,135.87              0.02


      Profit for the year                                                       –    4,927.61            –           –                        –              –        –        4,927.61             (0.01)
      Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                            (8.11)         (3.56)      (19.41)      23.01                      0.01      (111.80)     74.51         (45.35)                –
      Total comprehensive income for the
      year ended 31 March 2019                                           (8.11)      4,924.05       (19.41)      23.01                      0.01      (111.80)     74.51       4,882.26             (0.01)


      Transactions with owners in their
      capacity as owners
      Transfer from Retained earnings to
      General reserve                                                   720.43       (720.43)            –           –                        –              –        –                 –               –
      Final dividend, declared and paid during the year                         –   (1,736.20)           –           –                        –              –        –       (1,736.20)                –
      Tax on final dividend                                                     –    (337.49)            –           –                        –              –        –         (337.49)                –


      Balance as at 31 March 2019                           14        6,075.96      16,451.58        60.31      (17.47)                     0.26        299.29    74.51       22,944.44              0.01
      Summary of significant accounting policies
      followed by the Company                                1


      The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements

      As per our report of even date                                                                                                                       On behalf of the Board of Directors


      For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
      Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                                      Chairman
      ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                              Kevin D’sa                                                            Rajiv Bajaj
      per Arvind Sethi                                                                  Chief Financial Officer                                                  Managing Director
      Partner
      Membership Number: 89802                                                               Dr. J Sridhar                                                        Nanoo Pamnani
      Pune: 17 May 2019                                                                   Company Secretary                                                 Chairman - Audit Committee



198   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Consolidated Financial Statements



Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                 2019                            2018


I.   Operating activities
        Profit before tax                                                                            6,955.58                        5,933.41
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
          i) Depreciation and amortisation                                              265.69                          314.80
          ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold,
               demolished, discarded and scrapped                                         8.41                           10.15
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                   1.19                             3.14
         iv) Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents                      26.96                          (23.61)
          v) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                    2.94                           (1.52)
         vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                     (0.02)                          (0.24)
         vii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                     0.96                            0.87
        viii) Interest expense                                                            3.52                            0.44
                                                                                                       309.65                          304.03
        Less:
          i) Investment income included in above:
                  Interest income on fixed income securities                             24.33                           32.41
                  Interest income on fixed maturity plans                               829.65                                  –
                  Profit on sale of other investments, net                                1.92                            5.40
                  Gain on valuation and gain on realisation of mutual funds
                  measured at fair value through profit or loss                         361.19                          889.92
                  Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of
                  fixed income securities                                                48.21                           25.46
                                                                                      1,265.30                          953.19
          ii) Share of profits of associate                                             349.75                          287.61
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back (net)                1.22                             0.11
         iv) Liabilities no longer required written-back                                 89.51                           64.39
          v) Government grants                                                            2.65                            2.65
         vi) Exceptional item - NCCD reversal                                          342.00                                   –
         vii) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                           55.05                            7.58
                                                                                                    (2,105.48)                      (1,315.53)
                                                                                                      5,159.75                       4,921.91
        Change in assets and liabilities
          i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                       (218.93)                          (14.20)
          ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                               (1,070.47)                        (539.11)
         iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                            (167.36)                         677.80
         iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                         754.05                           989.35
                                                                                                      (702.71)                       1,113.84
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS optees                                                            (5.84)                         (22.83)
     Net cash from operating activities before income tax                                            4,451.20                        6,012.92
              Income-tax refund/(paid) for earlier years (net)                                         (10.00)                          (2.54)
              Income tax paid                                                                       (1,954.34)                      (1,682.54)
     Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                               2,486.86                       4,327.84


                                                                   Carried forward                   2,486.86                        4,327.84


                                                                                                          12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19               199
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                               2019                            2018



                                                                       Brought forward                   2,486.86                       4,327.84
      II. Investing activities
               i) Sale of investments                                                     9,140.38                        4,988.52
               ii) Purchase of investments                                               (9,600.95)                     (7,483.30)
              iii) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                        214.81                          558.73
              iv) Purchase of investment property                                                –                           (0.20)
               v) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                 (0.37)                          (3.20)
              vi) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)          (163.53)                        (182.63)
              vii) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment                            76.16                           13.13
             viii) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                 (20.78)                         (13.79)
                                                                                          (354.28)                       (2,122.74)
              ix) Investment income
                    Interest income on fixed income securities                               24.33                           32.41
                    (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                               (8.49)                          37.24
                                                                                             15.84                           69.65


         Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                               (338.44)                      (2,053.09)


                                                                       Carried forward                   2,148.42                        2,274.75




200   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements



Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                   2019                            2018



                                                                  Brought forward                      2,148.42                         2,274.75
III. Financing activities
          i) Interest expense                                                              (3.52)                          (0.44)
         ii) Deferral of sales tax deferral liability                                       2.79                                  –
         iii) Dividend paid                                                            (1,735.83)                      (1,588.32)
         iv) Corporate dividend tax paid                                                (337.49)                        (296.50)


    Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                (2,074.05)                       (1,885.26)


IV. Change in foreign currency translation arising on consolidation                                       92.63                            75.00


    Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                              167.00                          464.49


    Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                               775.60                           287.50
    Add/(Less): Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                            (26.96)                            23.61
    Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year                                                     915.64                           775.60
                                                                                                               –                                 –



As per our report of even date                                                                             On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                      Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                       Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                   Kevin D’sa                                         Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                               Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                         Dr. J Sridhar                                    Nanoo Pamnani
Pune: 17 May 2019                                             Company Secretary                             Chairman - Audit Committee




                                                                                                            12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                201
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019

      Background

      Bajaj Auto Limited (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged in
      the business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles etc. and parts
      thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets. The registered office of the Company is
      located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

      The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of Bajaj Auto Limited (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries
      (collectively, the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 March 2019. The consolidated financial statements were approved for issue in
      accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company on 17 May 2019.

      The consolidated financial statements include results of the subsidiaries of Bajaj Auto Ltd., consolidated in accordance with
      Ind AS 110 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and Ind AS 28 ‘Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures’.

                                                     Country of           % Shareholding of      % Shareholding of
      Name of the Company                            Incorporation        Bajaj Auto Ltd.        Non-controlling interest       Consolidated as



      PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                       Indonesia            99.25%                 0.75%                          Subsidiary
      Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV           Netherlands          100.00%                -                              Subsidiary

      The consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV include 47.99% interest in KTM AG as an associate.

      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company
      Basis of preparation

      These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under section 133
      of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from
      time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

      The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
      (including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value.

      The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
      nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

      All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
      Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
      liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition of
      assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as
      12 months for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

      Significant accounting policies

      This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
      have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

      1   Basis of Consolidation

          The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries, being the
          entities that it controls. Control is evidenced where the Group has power over the investee or is exposed, or has rights,
          to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the
          investee. Power is demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, which significantly affect
          the entity returns. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company.
          Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies in line with
          accounting policies of the Group. For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit/loss for the financial year and net
          assets is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss and Consolidated
          Balance Sheet. For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises
          a reduction to the non-controlling interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid,
          inclusive of transaction fees, being recognised in equity. In addition, upon dilution of controlling interests the difference between



202   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
    the cash received from sale or listing of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised in equity.
    The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired or disposed off during the year are included in the Consolidated Statement of
    Profit and Loss from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Intragroup balances
    and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the
    consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.

2   Investment in associates

    Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a
    position to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies. The considerations made in determining whether
    significant influence is being exercised are similar to those necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries. Goodwill arising
    on the acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associate.

    The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in
    an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s
    share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying
    amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually.

    The Statement of Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate. Any change in OCI of
    those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the
    equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
    Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the
    interest in the associate.

    If an entity’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate (which includes any long-term interest
    that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the entity discontinues recognising its share of
    further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or
    made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share
    of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.

    The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate is shown on the face of the Statement of Profit and Loss.

    The financial statements of the associate are prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial
    statements. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. The Group
    has not identified any material adjustments during the year; in regard to the alignment of accounting policies.

    After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its
    investment in its associate. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment
    in the associate is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between
    the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss in the statement of profit or loss.

    Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value.
    Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the retained
    investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.

3   Foreign currencies

    The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the parent company’s functional currency.
    For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity
    are measured using that functional currency. The Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign
    operation the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method.

    Transactions and balances

    Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective functional currency spot rates
    at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. However, for practical reasons, the group uses an average rate if the
    average approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction.

    Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange
    at the reporting date.



                                                                                                            12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           203
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
          Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss with the exception of
          the following:

          Exchange differences arising on monetary items that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are
          recognised in profit or loss in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the individual financial statements of the
          foreign operation, as appropriate. In the financial statements that include the foreign operation and the reporting entity
          (e.g., consolidated financial statements when the foreign operation is a subsidiary), such exchange differences are recognised
          initially in OCI. These exchange differences are reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.

          Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those monetary items are also recorded in OCI.

          Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
          rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated
          using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary
          items measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item
          (i.e., translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in OCI or profit or loss are also recognised in
          OCI or profit or loss, respectively).

          Group companies

          On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into INR at the rate of exchange prevailing at the
          reporting date and their statements of profit or loss are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
          For practical reasons, the group uses an average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates the
          exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised
          in OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in
          profit or loss.

          Any goodwill arising in the acquisition/business combination of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying
          amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and
          translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.

          Gain or loss on a subsequent disposal of any foreign operation excludes translation differences that arose before the date of
          transition but includes only translation differences arising after the transition date.

      4   Taxation

          a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
             authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted,
             at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.

          b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other
             comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI
             or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
             applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

          c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
             liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
             enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
             asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

             Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
             future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

          d) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets
             against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.

      5) Other significant accounting policies

          Other significant accounting policies followed by the Group are exactly similar to the significant accounting policies of the parent,
          Bajaj Auto Limited; and hence have not been reproduced here. Refer note 1 of standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
          for the year ended 31 March 2019 for details in regard to other significant accounting policies.


204   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                   Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                       Gross block                                             Depreciation                         Net block
                                                                                  As at                                                     As at          As at
                                           As at               Deductions/    31 March            As at                       For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                        1 April 2018    Additions   adjustments        2019    1 April 2018    Deductions            year        2019           2019



Land freehold                             20.09           –            0.12       19.97              –            –                –           –           19.97
Land leasehold                            53.04           –            0.65      52.39               –            –                –           –          52.39
Buildings                                929.46         3.12           0.48     932.10          287.11          0.08           25.91      312.94          619.16
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains          17.31         0.05              –       17.36          11.96            –             0.80        12.76           4.60
Plant and machinery                    1,381.46       36.71           54.02    1,364.15         966.75         49.49           61.48      978.74         385.41
Computers and IT Equipment                77.59         2.34           2.43      77.50           63.42          2.43            7.28       68.27            9.23
Dies and jigs                            739.01       57.39           18.02     778.38          511.60         14.22           57.39      554.77         223.61
Electric installations                    73.83         0.46              –      74.29           66.99            –             1.54       68.53            5.76
Factory equipment                        376.79       26.31            2.10     401.00          175.63          1.71           25.72      199.64         201.36
Furniture                                 49.60         1.82          10.59      40.83           30.30         10.59            3.09       22.80           18.03
Office equipment                          50.58         5.53          10.85      45.26           41.96         10.85            4.32       35.43            9.83
Electric fittings                         31.53         0.28              –      31.81           21.51            –             1.92       23.43            8.38
Vehicles and aircraft                    648.85       17.19          304.73     361.31          450.69        284.45           64.11      230.35          130.96
Total                                 4,449.14       151.20          403.99   4,196.35       2,627.92        373.82           253.56    2,507.66       1,688.69


Capital work-in-progress                  11.15        9.48            9.09      11.54               –            –                –           –          11.54




        Previous year
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                       Gross block                                             Depreciation                         Net block
                                                                                  As at                                                     As at          As at
                                           As at               Deductions/    31 March            As at                       For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                        1 April 2017    Additions   adjustments        2018    1 April 2017    Deductions            year        2018           2018



Land freehold                             20.18           –            0.09      20.09               –            –                –           –           20.09
Land leasehold                            53.69           –            0.65      53.04               –            –                –           –           53.04
Buildings                                877.46       52.35            0.35     929.46          259.25          0.06           27.92      287.11         642.35
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains          17.18         0.13              –      17.31           11.16            –             0.80       11.96            5.35
Plant and machinery                    1,436.41       31.94           86.89    1,381.46         983.15         81.46           65.06      966.75         414.71
Computers and IT Equipment                86.52         3.88          12.81      77.59           66.29         12.81            9.94       63.42           14.17
Dies and jigs                            694.97       78.18           34.14     739.01          489.16         32.40           54.84      511.60         227.41
Electric installations                    72.98         0.85              –      73.83           64.36            –             2.63       66.99            6.84
Factory equipment                        368.99       18.05           10.25     376.79          158.99          9.62           26.26      175.63         201.16
Furniture                                 47.07         2.66           0.13      49.60           26.50          0.11            3.91       30.30           19.30
Office equipment                          49.17         1.70           0.29      50.58           37.27          0.28            4.97       41.96            8.62
Electric fittings                         31.38         0.23           0.08      31.53           19.06          0.07            2.52       21.51           10.02
Vehicles and aircraft                    643.28       16.86           11.29     648.85          385.48          3.82           69.03      450.69         198.16
Total                                 4,399.28       206.83          156.97   4,449.14       2,500.67        140.63           267.88    2,627.92        1,821.22


Capital work-in-progress                  10.64       10.89           10.38      11.15               –            –                –           –          11.15




                                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                 205
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                                                                        2019                 2018



      Gross carrying amount
      Opening balance                                                                                                                                                                    69.66                69.46
      Additions                                                                                                                                                                               –                0.20
      Closing balance                                                                                                                                                                    69.66                69.66


      Accumulated depreciation
      Opening balance                                                                                                                                                                    12.55                10.93
      Depreciation charge                                                                                                                                                                 1.61                 1.62
      Closing balance                                                                                                                                                                    14.16                12.55
      Net carrying amount                                                                                                                                                                55.50                57.11
      See note 3 of standalone financial statements for the following disclosures in regard to investment property:
      i) Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
      ii) Contractual obligations
      iii) Leasing arrangements
      iv) Fair value




      4 Intangible assets
        Current year
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    Gross block                                                 Amortisation                             Net block
                                                                                                                                   As at                                                       As at            As at
                                                                          As at                                  Deductions/   31 March            As at                       For the     31 March         31 March
      Particulars                                                 1 April 2018                Additions          adjustments       2019    1 April 2018    Deductions            year          2019             2019



      Intangible assets
      Technical know-how developed                                               –                 29.62                  –       29.62               –            –             9.87             9.87          19.75


      Total Intangible assets                                                    –                 29.62                  –       29.62               –            –             9.87          9.87            19.75


      Intangible assets under development                                  45.32                   20.78               29.62      36.48               –            –                –               –          36.48



              Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    Gross block                                                 Amortisation                             Net block
                                                                                                                                   As at                                                       As at            As at
                                                                          As at                                  Deductions/   31 March            As at                       For the     31 March         31 March
      Particulars                                                 1 April 2017                Additions          adjustments       2018    1 April 2017    Deductions            year          2018             2018



      Intangible assets
      Technical know–how developed                                        133.93                         –                –      133.93           89.28            –            44.65        133.93                  –


      Total Intangible assets                                             133.93                         –                –      133.93           89.28            –            44.65        133.93                  –


      Intangible assets under development                                  31.53                   13.79                  –       45.32               –            –                –               –          45.32




206   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                               Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     Non-current investments                  Current investments
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2019                2018               2019               2018



(A) Investments in associate of subsidiary
    5,204,864 shares of Euro 100 each in KTM AG                                                          2,052.61            1,890.62                    –                    –
    Goodwill on above investment                                                                            613.60             638.37                    –                    –
                                                                                                         2,666.21            2,528.99                    –                    –


(B) Other investments
Investments carried at FVTOCI
    2,910,050 shares of H 10 each in Bajaj Holdings & Investments Ltd.                                     994.23                     –                  –                    –
Investments carried at amortised cost
    In Bonds and debentures                                                                                 152.85             191.19              174.51             127.50
    In Commercial paper                                                                                           –                   –                  –             97.58
    In Fixed maturity plans (Amortised cost as at 31 March 2019/Fair value
    through P&L as at 31 March 2018)                                                                    11,203.40            5,755.83           1,134.71            5,122.74
Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
    In Mutual fund units                                                                                 4,009.68            4,653.15              267.26             417.59
                                                                                                        16,360.16          10,600.17            1,576.48            5,765.41
                                                                                                        19,026.37           13,129.16           1,576.48            5,765.41
Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments                                                        –                   –                  –                  1.95
Notes to Investments:
1. See note 5B of standalone financial statements for details of 'Other investments'.
2. See footnotes to note 5 of standalone financial statements.



6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2019                2018               2019               2018



Security deposits                                                                                            24.64              23.38                    –                    –
Employee loans                                                                                                 7.02               7.30               6.34                   6.26
                                                                                                             31.66              30.68                6.34                   6.26
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (Previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally. [See note 33]




                                                                                                                                    12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                     207
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)

      7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                         Non-current                  Current
                                                                         As at 31 March            As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                        2019              2018     2019             2018


      Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                             0.02              0.02       –                  –
      Interest receivable on investments                                     –                –      9.64              1.15
      Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                            –                –      0.68             0.60
      Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 32]        –                –     65.85            60.32
      Other advances                                                         –                –     36.77            17.29
                                                                          0.02              0.02   112.94            79.36


      8 Other assets
        (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                         Non-current                  Current
                                                                         As at 31 March            As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                        2019              2018     2019             2018



      Capital advances                                                  101.90             89.96       –                  –
      Security deposits                                                   6.70              4.89       –                  –
      Advances recoverable in cash or kind
          Advances to related parties [See note 33]                          –                –        –              4.21
          Other advances                                                 23.49             24.34    87.12           34.64
          Doubtful advances                                               8.14              8.14       –                  –
                                                                         31.63             32.48    87.12           38.85
          Provision for doubtful advances                                 8.14              8.14       –                  –
                                                                         23.49             24.34    87.12           38.85
      VAT refund receivable                                             174.74            237.66    29.51            45.14
      GST credit/refund receivable                                           –                –    259.04           167.80
      NCCD deposit receivable from Government [See note 28]                  –                –    342.00                 –
      Export incentives receivable
          Unsecured considered good                                          –                –    205.46           120.90
          Doubtful                                                        0.21              5.95       –                  –
                                                                          0.21              5.95   205.46           120.90
          Provision for doubtful export incentives                        0.21              5.95       –                  –
                                                                             –                –    205.46           120.90
                                                                        306.83            356.85   923.13           372.69




208   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2019              2018



Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 53.62 crore (Previous year H 27.98 crore))                          424.26             259.01
Work-in-progress                                                                                                         46.96              26.89
Finished goods                                                                                                          470.41             434.06
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                      16.37              18.43
Loose tools                                                                                                                3.51              4.19
                                                                                                                        961.51             742.58

Amount recognised in profit and loss
Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H (5.12) crore
(Previous year – H 0.62 crore). These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.


10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                         Non-current                        Current
                                                                                         As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2019            2018            2019              2018



Unsecured, considered good                                                                    –               –       2,559.69            1,491.87
Credit impaired                                                                            6.74            6.99               –                  –
                                                                                           6.74            6.99       2,559.69            1,491.87
Impairment allowance for credit impaired                                                   6.74            6.99               –                  –
                                                                                              –               –       2,559.69         1,491.87


11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2019              2018



Balances with banks                                                                                                     570.87             529.05
Cash on hand                                                                                                               0.10              0.11
Cash equivalents
   Certificate of Deposits and Commercial Papers with maturity of less than three months from
   date of acquisition                                                                                                  344.67             246.44
                                                                                                                        915.64             775.60




                                                                                                             12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19              209
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                               Non-current                        Current
                                                                                               As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                               2019             2018           2019             2018



      Unclaimed dividend accounts                                                                   –                –          17.43            17.06
      Deposits with residual maturity for more than 12 months                                    0.02             0.02              –                 –
                                                                                                 0.02             0.02          17.43            17.06
      Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' [See note 7]                             (0.02)            (0.02)             –                 –
                                                                                                    –                –          17.43            17.06


      13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                               As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                               2019             2018



      Authorised
      300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                  300.00            300.00
      Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
      289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                   289.37           289.37
                                                                                                                               289.37           289.37


      a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                           As at 31 March 2019             As at 31 March 2018
      Particulars                                                                               Nos.       D In Crore            Nos.       D In Crore



      Equity shares
      At the beginning of the year                                                       289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020           289.37
      Issued during the year                                                                        –                –              –                 –
      Outstanding at the end of the year                                                 289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020           289.37


      b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

         The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one
         vote per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors and
         approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
         the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
         The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.

      c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                           As at 31 March 2019             As at 31 March 2018
      Particulars                                                                               Nos.       % Holding             Nos.       % Holding



      Equity shares of D 10 each fully paid
      Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                    96,727,050            33.43%    91,280,000            31.54%
      Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                             25,844,400             8.93%    25,844,400            8.93%
      Life Insurance Corporation of India                                                 13,429,329             4.64%     17,200,152            5.94%



210   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                              Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
14 Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2019                 2018



Reserves and surplus:
General reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                                       5,363.64           4,793.84
Add: Adjustments on account of change in share of net assets of associate/subsidiary                                                              (8.11)                11.95
Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                   720.43                557.85
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                                             6,075.96           5,363.64


Retained earnings
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                                      14,321.65          12,562.56
Profit for the year                                                                                                                            4,927.61          4,218.95
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of gratuity (net of tax)                                                                                             (3.56)              (13.99)
Less: Appropriations
    Transfer to General reserve                                                                                                                 720.43                557.85
    Final dividend paid                                                                                                                       1,736.20               1,591.52
    Tax on final dividend paid                                                                                                                  337.49                296.50
Total appropriations                                                                                                                           2,794.12          2,445.87
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                                            16,451.58          14,321.65


Other reserves:
Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 32 of standalone financial statements]                                                                        60.31                79.72
Costs of hedging reserve [See note 32 of standalone financial statements]                                                                        (17.47)              (40.48)
Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid-up capital                                                                                       0.26                 0.25
Foreign currency translation reserve                                                                                                            299.29                411.09


FVTOCI reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                                                –                   –
Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                                                                                    74.51                    –
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                                                 74.51                    –
                                                                                                                                             22,944.44          20,135.87


15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2019                 2018



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                124.52                120.77
                                                                                                                                                124.52                120.77
The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. [See note 32]



                                                                                                                                  12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                    211
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 Non-current                       Current
                                                                                                                 As at 31 March                 As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                 2019               2018        2019             2018



      Provision for employee benefits
      [See note 37 of standalone financial statements]
      Provision for gratuity                                                                                      12.01            108.99           –                  –
      Provision for compensated absences                                                                               –                  –     118.25           106.42
      Provision for welfare scheme                                                                                 2.55               3.20        0.52             0.51
                                                                                                                  14.56            112.19       118.77           106.93
      Other provisions
      Provision for warranties
      [See footnote to note 16 of standalone financial statements]                                                     –                  –      21.85            18.67
                                                                                                                  14.56            112.19       140.62           125.60




      17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                                2019             2018



      Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                  636.82           526.29
      Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                        94.16           202.87
                                                                                                                                                542.66           323.42
      See note 17 of standalone financial statements for detailed break-up of deferred tax liabilities/assets and movement in deferred taxes.



      18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                                2019             2018



      Annuity payable to VRS optees                                                                                                               1.12             1.35
                                                                                                                                                  1.12             1.35


      19 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                As at 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                                                2019             2018



      Security deposits                                                                                                                          25.04            21.61
      Unclaimed dividend                                                                                                                         17.43            17.06
      Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                                                                             28.88            26.28
      Employee benefits payable                                                                                                                 164.81           136.41
      Other payables                                                                                                                            134.81           127.90
                                                                                                                                                370.97           329.26
      Refer note 31 of standalone financial statements for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.


212   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
20 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2019              2018



Annuity payable to VRS optees                                                                                        0.38              5.99
Advance received from customers                                                                                   490.83             327.58
Taxes and duties payable                                                                                           37.88              36.09
Other payables                                                                                                     27.88              24.07
                                                                                                                  556.97             393.73


21 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2019              2018



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products [See note 37]                                                                                 29,567.25       25,098.64


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                        21.56              21.31
Export incentives                                                                                                 457.07             343.43
Royalty                                                                                                           128.67              98.68
Technical know how fees                                                                                                 –              1.20
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                   75.41              54.01
                                                                                                                  682.71             518.63
                                                                                                               30,249.96        25,617.27


Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                           17,722.17      15,395.54
Outside India                                                                                                  11,845.08            9,703.10
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                    29,567.25       25,098.64


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                29,785.13        25,247.62
Adjustments:
    Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                         (154.41)           (148.98)
    Sales promotion expenses                                                                                      (63.47)                  –
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                          29,567.25       25,098.64




                                                                                                        12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19             213
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      22 Other income
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                                   2019             2018



      Investment income
      Interest income on fixed income securities                                                                   24.33             32.41
      Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                 48.21            25.46
      Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                                     829.65                   –
      Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                                     902.19             57.87


      Gain on valuation and gain on realisation of mutual funds and fixed maturity plans measured at FVTPL         361.19          889.92
      Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                                       1.92             5.40
                                                                                                                1,265.30           953.19
      Others
      Rent [See note 39 of standalone financial statements]                                                        31.39             29.27
      Insurance claims                                                                                               0.86             0.56
      Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                       94.48            80.59
      Government grants                                                                                              2.65             2.65
      Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                             55.05              7.58
      Bad debts recovered                                                                                            0.03             0.36
      Sundry credit balances appropriated                                                                            0.83             0.84
      Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back                                                         1.22             0.12
      Less: Write backs on account of amounts written off during the year                                            0.47             0.01
                                                                                                                     0.75              0.11
      Liabilities no longer required written-back                                                                   89.51           64.39
      Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                                14.16            18.72
                                                                                                                  289.71           205.07


                                                                                                                1,555.01         1,158.26




214   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                              Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
23 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
                                                                                                         (Increase)/
Particulars                                                                    2019            2018        decrease



Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress                                                               46.96           26.89             (20.07)
Finished goods                                                                470.41         434.06              (36.35)
                                                                              517.37         460.95              (56.42)
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress                                                               26.89           39.83               12.94
Finished goods                                                                434.06         430.80                (3.26)
                                                                              460.95         470.63                 9.68
                                                                              (56.42)           9.68


24 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2019                2018



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees                                                      1,094.33             927.48
Contribution to provident and other funds                                                      90.42              80.55
Staff welfare expenses                                                                         72.14               61.45
                                                                                           1,256.89            1,069.48
See note 37 and 38 of standalone financial statements.


25 Finance costs
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2019                2018



Interest expense                                                                                3.52                0.44
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                         0.96                0.87
                                                                                                4.48                1.31


26 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2019                2018



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                253.56              267.88
Depreciation on investment property                                                             1.61                1.62
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                              9.87              44.65
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                  0.65                0.65
                                                                                             265.69              314.80


                                                                                  12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                 215
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      27 Other expenses
                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                             2019             2018



      Stores and tools consumed                                                                             141.28            117.71
      Power, fuel and water                                                                                 115.01           100.26
      Rent [See note 39 of standalone financial statements]                                                  15.26             13.80
      Repairs to buildings                                                                                   45.47            44.26
      Repairs to machinery                                                                                   92.45           110.26
      Other repairs                                                                                            6.86             8.75
      Insurance                                                                                                3.04             3.20
      Rates and taxes                                                                                          6.36             4.02
      Payment to auditor                                                                                       1.73             1.67
      Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                  1.31             1.20
      Commission to non-executive directors                                                                    2.12             1.91
      Travelling expenses                                                                                    66.81             56.10
      Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                329.88           307.53
      Sales tax/VAT expenses                                                                                      –             9.00
      Packing material consumed                                                                             347.93            269.18
      Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                       202.75            118.12
      Advertisement                                                                                         484.94           437.39
      Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                            152.39           102.65
      Sales promotion expenses                                                                               82.25           106.87
      Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                  112.32           100.51
      Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                             0.58              0.11
      Less: Provisions made in earlier years in respect of amounts written off during the year                 0.47             0.01
                                                                                                               0.11             0.10
      Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                           8.41            10.15
      Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)           1.19             3.14
                                                                                                          2,219.87         1,927.78




216   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
28 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                     2019             2018



NCCD reversal                                                                                                (342.00)                  –
Dealer compensation                                                                                                 –            32.00
                                                                                                             (342.00)           32.00

The Company, during the year ended 31 March 2015, had expensed off the payments made towards deposit of ‘National Calamity
Contingent Duty’ (NCCD) and applicable education cess and secondary and higher education cess thereon, together with interest
and penalty amounting to H 342.00 crore for the period from 1 April 2007 to 30 September 2014, pursuant to an order from the
Honourable High Court of Uttarakhand on 9 October 2014 that the levy of NCCD is out of the purview of exemptions granted to the
Company under the scheme of incentives for industries in certain identified growth areas in Uttarakhand.

In the current year, pursuant to a special leave petition filed by the Company, the Honourable Supreme Court vide its judgment
dated 27 March 2019 has held that the Company is not liable to pay NCCD, education cess and secondary and higher education cess;
and set aside the orders of Division Bench of Nainital High Court and quashed the show cause notices. The Company has accordingly
reversed the charge of H 342.00 crore as an exceptional item in the current year; and has disclosed the corresponding amount in the
Balance Sheet as ‘Deposits receivable from the Government’. The Company has however not received refund of the said amount from
the Excise authorities up to the date of approval of the financial statements by the Board of Directors of the Company.

Exceptional items for the year ended 31 March 2018 represent a one time payment to dealers to compensate them for any losses
incurred on introduction of GST as a result of pre-GST inventory held on 30 June 2017.




                                                                                                   12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19              217
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      29 Tax expense
                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
      Particulars                                                                                         2019             2018



      (a) Tax expense
      Current tax
      Current tax on profits for the year                                                             1,818.59         1,646.36


      Deferred tax
      Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                        108.71             38.73
      (Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                   100.68             29.38
      Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                              209.39             68.11


      Tax expense                                                                                     2,027.98         1,714.47


      (b) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
      Profit before tax                                                                               6,955.58         5,933.41
      Tax at the Indian tax rate of 34.944% (Previous year - 34.608%)                                 2,430.56         2,053.43
      Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
          –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                                 19.44            17.79
          –   Disallowance of estimated expenditure to earn tax exempt income                              0.10             0.10
          –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                   4.64             4.31
          –   Rate difference on account of fair value of mutual funds                                   40.39             86.78
          –   Others                                                                                       0.62             5.07


      Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
          –   Weighted deduction for Research and Development expenditure                               (74.24)          (65.72)
          –   Profits of subsidiaries not taxable in India                                              (88.21)          (52.20)
          –   Tax-free interest                                                                          (0.70)           (0.70)
          –   Difference in tax rate on account of dividend received from subsidiary                    (16.49)          (23.37)
          –   National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD)                                                  (15.44)                  –
          –   Deduction for profit from specified undertaking                                           (45.30)          (46.74)
          –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                        (168.21)        (134.10)
          –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                (57.70)        (129.55)
          –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                              (1.48)           (0.63)
      Tax expense                                                                                     2,027.98         1,714.47




218   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                     Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
30 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                               For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2019            2018



a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                                4,927.61        4,218.95
    Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                        289,367,020     289,367,020
b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                          170.3            145.8
    Face value per share H                                                                                             10.0            10.0


31 Notes to these consolidated financial statements are intended to serve as a means of informative disclosure and a guide to better
    understanding of the consolidated position of the companies. Recognising this purpose, the Company has disclosed only such
    notes from the individual financial statements, which fairly present the needed disclosures.

32 Other disclosures
Other notes and disclosures to be inserted in the consolidated financial statements are similar to those of standalone financial
statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been repeated here.
The relevant note references in the standalone financial statements are given below:

Particulars                                                               Note Reference of standalone financial statements



Fair value measurement                                                    Note 31
Financial risk management                                                 Note 32
Capital management                                                        Note 33 (a)
Dividends distributed and proposed                                        Note 33 (b)
Contingent liabilities                                                    Note 34
Capital commitments                                                       Note 35
Employee benefits                                                         Note 37
Lease                                                                     Note 39
Research and Development                                                  Note 40
Dues to micro , small and medium enterprises                              Note 41
Standards issued but not yet affective                                    Note 44

There are no changes arising out of inclusion of the subsidiaries/associate amounts in the above disclosures.

33 Consolidated related party transactions are same as related party transactions of standalone Bajaj Auto Ltd. except for following
    transactions which are additional in consolidated financial statements -
    Interest received from KTM AG: H Nil (Previous year - H 0.01 crore)




                                                                                                         12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19           219
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      34 Investment in an associate
      The Group has a 47.99% interest in KTM AG, Austria which is engaged in the development, production and distribution of motorised
      vehicles under the ‘KTM’ and ‘Husqvarna’ brands; and holds equity interests in other entities engaging in development, production
      and distribution of such equipment. Major sale markets include the USA, Germany, France, Australia , the UK, Italy, Spain, Canada,
      Austria, Argentina and other European countries.

      KTM AG is a private entity that is not listed on any public exchange. The Group’s interest is in KTM AG.

      The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in KTM AG (in Euro, which is its
      functional currency):


                                                                                                                                   Euro in Million
      Particulars                                                                                     31 December 2018        31 December 2017



      Current assets                                                                                               569.82                 501.94
      Non-current assets                                                                                           732.03                 589.99
      Current liabilities                                                                                          356.85                336.03
      Non-current liabilities                                                                                      394.30                 267.94
      Equity                                                                                                       550.70                487.96


      Revenue                                                                                                    1,454.75               1,331.71
      Cost of sales                                                                                              (1,037.67)             (957.12)
      Gross profit                                                                                                 417.08                374.59
      Selling and racing expenses                                                                                 (173.78)               (157.98)
      Research and development expenses                                                                            (22.43)                (28.96)
      Infrastructure and administration expenses                                                                   (56.92)                (47.83)
      Other operating expenses                                                                                     (30.68)                (31.31)
      Other operating income                                                                                          0.64                  2.57
      Share of profit of associates                                                                                  (4.71)                  1.97
      Result from operating activities                                                                             129.20                113.05
      Interest income                                                                                                 3.08                  1.88
      Interest expenses                                                                                            (13.83)                 (6.49)
      Other financial result                                                                                         (1.81)                (1.44)
      Profit before tax                                                                                            116.64                107.00
      Tax expense                                                                                                  (26.87)               (28.04)
      Profit for the year (continuing operations)                                                                   89.77                  78.96
      Total comprehensive income for the year (continuing operations)                                                87.31                82.03
      The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments.




220   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
35 Segment information
Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2019
The Company's Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group's performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The group's significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                                            Automotive           Investments   Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                                         30,539.67             1,265.30      31,804.97
Inter segment sales and other income                                                                –                 –                –
Total revenue                                                                            30,539.67             1,265.30     31,804.97
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 29,567.25 crore


Segment result                                                                               5,697.47          1,262.59       6,960.06
Finance costs                                                                                    4.48                 –            4.48
Tax expense                                                                                         –                 –       2,027.98
Non-controlling interest                                                                            –                 –           (0.01)
Profit for the year                                                                          5,692.99          1,262.59      4,927.61

Segment assets                                                                                7,237.32        18,346.47      25,583.79
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                       2,666.21                 –       2,666.21
Unallocated corporate assets                                                                        –                 –         584.41
Total assets                                                                                 9,903.53        18,346.47      28,834.41

Segment liabilities                                                                          4,871.07                 –       4,871.07
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                                   –                 –           15.74
Total liabilities                                                                            4,871.07                 –      4,886.81

Capital employed                                                                             5,032.46         18,346.47     23,947.60

Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                            4,886.81
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
      Sales tax deferral                                                                                                        124.52
      Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                  542.66
      Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                                  46.60
Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                                       5,600.59

Capital expenditure                                                                            151.20                 –         151.20
Depreciation and write downs                                                                   265.69                 –         265.69
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                                        1.19                 –            1.19

(b) Geographic segment
Particulars                                                                          India      Rest of the world         Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                                 19,959.53                11,845.44          31,804.97
Segment assets                                                                   25,681.92                 3,152.49          28,834.41
Capital expenditure                                                                147.29                      3.91             151.20




                                                                                                         12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         221
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
      35 Segment information (Contd.)
      Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2018
                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)

      (a) Business segment
      Particulars                                                                 Automotive        Investments    Consolidated


      Revenue
      External sales and other income*                                              25,822.34             953.19      26,775.53
      Inter segment sales and other income                                                    –                –                –
      Total revenue                                                                 25,822.34            953.19      26,775.53
      * includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 25,098.64 crore



      Segment result                                                                    4,983.66          951.06       5,934.72
      Finance costs                                                                         1.31               –            1.31
      Tax expense                                                                             –                –       1,714.47
      Non-controlling interest                                                                –                –           (0.01)
      Profit for the year                                                               4,982.35         951.06       4,218.95


      Segment assets                                                                    5,503.05       16,670.30      22,173.35
      Investments in associate of subsidiary                                            2,528.99               –       2,528.99
      Unallocated corporate assets                                                            –                –         438.66
      Total assets                                                                  8,032.04          16,670.30      25,141.00


      Segment liabilities                                                               4,206.55               –       4,206.55
      Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                       –                –           15.74
      Total liabilities                                                                 4,206.55               –      4,222.29


      Capital employed                                                                  3,825.49      16,670.30      20,918.71


      Reconciliation of segment liabilities
      Total segment liabilities as above                                                                               4,222.29
      Add: Considered as part of capital employed
            Sales tax deferral                                                                                           120.77
            Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                     323.42
            Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                     49.26
      Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                          4,715.74


      Capital expenditure                                                                 206.83               –         206.83
      Depreciation and write downs                                                        314.80               –         314.80
      Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                             3.14               –            3.14

      (b) Geographic segment
      Particulars                                                               India      Rest of the world       Consolidated


      Segment revenue: External sales and other income                      17,071.79               9,703.74          26,775.53
      Segment assets                                                        22,202.14              2,938.86           25,141.00
      Capital expenditure                                                     206.83                      –              206.83




222   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements



Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019 (Contd.)
36 Disclosure in terms of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
                                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                            Net Assets (i.e. Total assets                                                Share in other                           Share in total
                                              minus total liabilities)          Share in Profit or (Loss)             comprehensive income                    comprehensive income
                                                                                                                                                                   As a% of
                                                  As a% of                          As a% of                    As a% of consolidated                          consolidated
                                              consolidated                      consolidated                     other comprehensive                   total comprehensive
Particulars                                     net assets         Amount       profit or loss      Amount                    income     Amount                     income           Amount



1. Parent
   Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                  93.74%       21,779.90            94.88%        4,675.18               (164.39%)          74.55                 97.29%        4,749.73


2. Subsidiaries (Foreign)
   PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                               –            0.89           (0.05%)          (2.36)                  0.24%          (0.11)                (0.05%)            (2.47)
   Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV             11.52%         2,675.75            7.09%         349.14                  127.56%         (57.85)                 5.97%            291.29
   Add/(Less): Non-controlling interest
   in all subsidiaries                                    –           (0.01)                –           0.01                       –              –                      –              0.01
   Add/(Less): Inter-company eliminations           (5.26%)      (1,222.72)           (1.92%)        (94.36)                 136.59%         (61.94)                (3.21%)          (156.30)
Total                                              100.00%       23,233.81          100.00%        4,927.61                 100.00%          (45.35)              100.00%         4,882.26




37 Miscellaneous
     Post the applicability of GST with effect from 1 July 2017, Revenue from operations (i.e. Sales) are required to be disclosed
     net of GST. Sales before this date are disclosed as gross of excise duty. Accordingly, Revenue from operations for the current
     year is not comparable with the previous year.


As per our report of even date                                                                                                                On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                           Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                            Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                     Kevin D’sa                                                           Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                                               Chief Financial Officer                                                 Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                                           Dr. J Sridhar                                                      Nanoo Pamnani
Pune: 17 May 2019                                                               Company Secretary                                               Chairman - Audit Committee




                                                                                                                                               12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19                       223
      Consolidated Financial Statements



      Salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2019
      Form AOC-1
      In accordance with section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the salient features of the financial statements of
      subsidiaries are given below:
                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                              Bajaj Auto International
      Particulars                                                                            PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia     Holdings BV. (Consolidated)



      a   The date since when subsidiary was acquired                                             20 February 2008                  20 February 2008
                                                                                         (being the effective date of      (being the effective date of
                                                                                        demerger of erstwhile BAL)        demerger of erstwhile BAL)
      b   Reporting period for the subsidiary                                         1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019     1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019
      c   Reporting currency as on the last date of the relevant financial year in           IDR (Indonesian Rupiah)                                Euro
          the case of foreign subsidiaries
      d   Exchange rate as on the last date of the relevant financial year in the                  1 USD = IDR 14244                1 Euro = H 77.6725
          case of foreign subsidiaries                                                              1 USD = H 69.1550
      e   Share capital                                                                                         5.65                           1,537.92
      f   Reserves and surplus                                                                                 (4.76)                           1,137.83
      g   Total assets                                                                                          0.93                           2,675.81
      h   Total liabilities                                                                                     0.93                           2,675.81
      i   Investments                                                                                              –                           2,052.61
      j   Turnover                                                                                              0.06                                    –
      k   Profit before tax                                                                                    (2.36)                             349.14
      l   Provision for tax                                                                                        –                                    –
      m Profit after tax                                                                                       (2.36)                             349.14
      n   Proposed dividend                                                                                        –                                    –
      o   % of shareholding                                                                                   99.25%                           100.00%



                                                                                                                   On behalf of the Board of Directors


                                                                                                                             Rahul Bajaj
                                                                                                                              Chairman

                                                                         Kevin D’sa                                          Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                   Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director

                                                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                      Nanoo Pamnani
      Pune: 17 May 2019                                             Company Secretary                               Chairman - Audit Committee




224   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
indidesign.in | pragati.com
Bajaj Auto Limited
Akurdi, Pune - 411 035, India.
www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                      Directors' Report




Business
Responsibility Report
Section A    General information about the Company



    1        Corporate Identification Number                    L65993PN2007PLC130076
    2        Name of the Company                                Bajaj Auto Limited
    3        Registered Address                                 Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035
    4        Website                                            www.bajajauto.com
    5        Email Address                                      brr.response@bajajauto.co.in
    6        Financial year reported                            1 April 2018 – 31 March 2019
    7        Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in           Automobile
    8        Three key products/services manufactured/          Motorcycles and three and four wheeler
             provided by the Company                            commercial vehicles
    9        Total number of locations where business           Akurdi, Chakan and Waluj (Maharashtra)
             activity is undertaken by the Company              and Pantnagar (Uttarakhand)
    10       Markets served by the Company                      India and 79 countries across the world


 Section B   Financial details of the Company



    1        Paid up capital                                    H 289.37 crore
    2        Total turnover                                     H 31,899.27 crore
    3        Total profit after tax                             H 4,675.18 crore
    4        Total spending on CSR as percentage of PAT (%) Refer Annual Report on CSR activities
    5        List of the activities in which expenditure in     Refer Annual Report on CSR activities
             4 above has been incurred


 Section C   Other details



    1        Does the Company have any Subsidiary               Yes (for details, refer Note 1 of Consolidated
             Company/ Companies?                                Financial Statements).
    2        Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies                No
             participate in the BR initiatives of the parent
             company? If yes, then indicate the number of
             such subsidiary company(ies)
    3        Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers,      No
             distributors, etc.) that the Company does
             business with, participate in the BR initiatives
             of the Company? If yes, then indicate the
             percentage of such entity/entities. [Less than
             30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]




                                                                                      12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          1
    Directors' Report




                 Section D       BR information



                        1        Details of Director(s) responsible for BR
                             (a) Details of the Director/Director responsible for
                                 implementation of the BR policy/policies:
                                 DIN Number                                         07464437
                                 Name                                               Mr. Pradeep Shrivastava
                                 Designation                                        Executive Director
                             (b) Details of the BR head:
                                 DIN Number (if applicable)                         Not applicable
                                 Name                                               Mr. Kevin D’sa
                                 Designation                                        CFO
                                 Telephone number                                   (020) 66106601
                                 e-mail id                                          kpdsa@bajajauto.co.in
                        2        Principle-wise BR policy/policies                  Included in this report
                        3        Governance related to BR                           Included in this report




                 Section E       Principle-wise performance



                        1        Principle-wise performance                         Included in this report



              Preface
              As mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), India’s top 500 listed entities based
              on market capitalisation on the BSE and NSE, are required to submit a ‘Business Responsibility Report’
              (BRR) along with their Annual Report for 2018-19. This report is required to be in line with ‘National
              Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business’ (NVGs), as
              released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs in July 2011.

              Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘BAL’ or ‘the Company’), to whom the said requirement is applicable, presents its
              seventh BRR in line with the NVGs and the BRR requirement of SEBI. This report provides information
              on key business responsibility initiatives undertaken by the Company. The business responsibility
              performance of the Company is assessed annually by BAL’s Board of Directors.


              Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with
              Ethics, Transparency and Accountability
              BAL’s business philosophy is built on the key foundational values of ethics, transparency and
              accountability. The Company firmly believes that trust, integrity and credibility are key elements in
              creating value for its stakeholders. To ensure that these principles are adhered to, BAL adopted a
              Company-wide ‘Code of Conduct’ (CoC) in 2009. It describes integrity, cultural and good working norms
              as well as the process to address any violations. Every BAL employee is required to adhere to the CoC’s
              requirements and the same are introduced to them during induction.

              In order to enable employees to raise concerns to the Company’s Management, the CoC also contains a
              ‘Grievance Redressal Policy’ and a ‘Whistle Blower Policy’. One complaint was received with respect to
              the above two policies in the year 2018-19 and the same was acted upon.

              A separate CoC specifically applicable to the Company’s Directors and Senior Management is also in
              place which states that ‘Directors and Senior Managers shall observe the highest standards of ethical
              conduct and integrity and shall work to the best of their ability and judgment’. All Directors and Senior




2   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                     Directors' Report




Management personnel have affirmed compliance with the CoC. A declaration to this effect, signed by
the Managing Director, is given in the Annual Report.

The Company is also signatory to the Model Code of Conduct developed by Confederation of Indian
Industry (CII). In addition to this, BAL is an industry partner of the World Economic Forum’s initiative,
‘Partnership Against Corruption Initiative’ (PACI), and has a policy of a zero-tolerance towards bribery.


Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe
and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle
BAL believes that alignment of business plans and activities with sustainability goals leads to long-term
growth for the Company.

It is committed to providing goods that are safe and which imbibe sustainability through its life cycle.
This is reflected in the Company’s initiatives on resource efficiency and safety, as described below.


Product sustainability
All BAL products are compliant with the environmental standards in the Indian Central Motor Vehicle
Rules (CMVR), as applicable from time to time. This includes regulating the tail-pipe emissions of air
pollutants such as Carbon Monoxide (CO), Hydro-carbons (HC), Nitrogen oxides (NOx) gases as well as
particulate matter. For such compliances, all BAL models are ‘Type Approved’ certified by the
Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI).

BAL also ensures compliance with the emission Conformity of Production (COP) requirements for
emissions, under CMVR. Additionally, BAL ensures that models which are exported to various countries
meet the varying environmental requirements applicable for each country. In the last fiscal year for the
COP 50% of the vehicle models are Direct Pick from the dealership, which also successfully met the
COP norms. All existing BAL vehicle models are BS IV compliant and certified by ARAI. It has been
planned to comply with BS VI norms by end of 2019 for all variants across all platforms to meet the
deadline of April 2020.


Compliance to ABS/CBS norms for 2W brakes
In addition, plans are in place to comply with Government norms for anti-lock braking system and
combined braking system by March 2019 for all variants. All two-wheeler models have anti-lock
braking system or combined braking system, based on their engine capacity w.e.f. 1 April 2019.

The Company has planned for electrification for all platforms (i.e., two wheeler, three wheeler and
quadricycle).

Studies conducted by the Company on its products have indicated the recyclability and recoverability
rates of 87% and 94% respectively.


Sustainable Sourcing
The ‘Green Purchasing Policy’ of BAL includes requirements related to water, energy and natural
resource conservation that need to be met by the entire supply chain. In line with this Policy, all key
vendors are being certified for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems. Vendors are
currently submitting their re-certification status to BAL.

There are vendor clusters located close to each of the BAL plants. These vendors are engaged by BAL
through the ‘Bajaj Auto Vendor Association’ (BAVA), which currently has 163 members. While 135 of
these members are ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 certified, the Company plans to make such certifications
a prerequisite for all BAVA members in the future, except for assembly and 3PL logistics vendors.

Cluster level Vendors Safety Officers’ Committees have been formed for all the vendor clusters. Cross
audits are regularly conducted by these officers at the other vendor locations within the clusters. These,
along with frequent BAVA meetings, provide the members with a platform to share their experiences,




                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          3
    Directors' Report




              initiatives and best practices on various topics related to environmental, health and safety (EHS),
              logistics efficiency, quality improvement and other initiatives.

              BAL has adopted a ‘Total Productive Maintenance’ (TPM) Policy that enables Tier I and II vendors to
              improve their operational, human and cost efficiencies. At the end of FY2018-19, a total of 163 Tier I
              vendor groups and 300 Tier II vendors were practising TPM. Extension of practice of TPM to Tier 2
              vendors is reviewed in BAVA management committee meetings. To give a fillip to the adoption of TPM,
              BAL has also instituted the TPM Awards which recognise best TPM performing vendors. Cumulatively,
              119 BAL TPM Awards and 60 BAL TPM Excellence Awards have been given out to vendors. In addition,
              21 vendors have been recognised with the JIPM TPM Excellence awards and 8 vendors received JIPM
              TPM Excellence Consistency Award. TPM has also been deployed with service providers working in the
              plants. Best kaizens done on topics of Productivity, Quality, Cost, Delivery, Safety and Morale are
              awarded at an annual function.

              Continuing the practice of third party legal and environmental audit of vendors, especially those
              involved in surface treatment, a total of 54 audits were conducted in FY2018-19. These audits were
              preceded by vendor training which helped them understand the process and requirements of the
              audits. This has ensured compliance with regulations and promoted the adoption of good
              environmental practices among vendors. In addition, vendor energy audits were conducted to help
              them identify best practices in energy efficiency and loss elimination, which has resulted in energy
              saving across all the clusters.

              Another initiative to drive efficiency improvement at the vendor level has been the ‘Cluster Kaizen
              Competition’, conducted every year. This is followed by a final competition between clusters that
              recognises improvements in the safety, environment and legal areas.

              BAL has also been working with the vendors to encourage the installation of solar panels at major
              vendor locations. As a pilot project 5 vendors installed roof top solar systems at their factories in
              FY2017-18. In FY2018-19, 18 vendors installed roof top solar projects of 15 MW capacity at their
              premises, resulting in generation of green power and reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.


              Waste reduction
              BAL has undertaken the following actions to comply with the plastic waste management rules:

              l    Complete elimination of thermocole material
              l    Use of poly covers and wraps 50 microns by BAL as well as vendors supplying components
              l    Implemented printing of manufacturer name with recyclable signs and registration details
              l    Use of 20% recycled plastic with a minimum film thickness of 50 microns
              l    Plastic scrap being sent to source for recycling

              Continuous efforts are made to reduce generation of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes resulting in
              reduction in waste generation per vehicle by 15%.


              Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees
              BAL provides a positive, safe and inclusive work environment to its employees, which ensures that they
              achieve their highest potential and take the Company to greater heights.

              In the year 2018-19, BAL hired 2,863 employees, including 330 permanent employees, 131 on probation,
              2,315 trainees and 87 contractual employees. This led to a total headcount of 10,258 employees as of
              31 March 2019. Each of the four plants has Company recognised trade unions, and 43.35% of the
              employees are members of the same. Currently, BAL has 23 specially-abled permanent employees.

              As an equal opportunity employer, BAL encourages employment of women across the organisation.
              As on 31 March 2019, there were 471 women employees in BAL, including 201 regular employees,
              representing a 29% increase over last year. The Company has a Policy on ‘Prevention of Sexual
              Harassment at Workplace’ (POSH) in place to ensure the safety and security of women employees.
              As part of the International Women’s Day celebration, a programme called ‘Shakti – Women in Focus’ is
              run every year at BAL. It is a platform to celebrate and engage the women workforce with the larger


4   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Directors' Report




objective of highlighting the fact that BAL is a women-friendly organisation. This programme effectively
communicates the message that women employees in the Company are safe, both emotionally and
physically and know that the environment at BAL is conducive to their development and growth.
Different stakeholders came together for this programme that includes week-long learning,
engagement and recognition activities, simultaneously held across all the four locations. This year,
Ms. Barbara Kennedi, Vice President-Customer Service-KTM Global, has addressed woman employees
during the week.

Recognising the fact that continuous skill enhancement gives a fillip to the productivity of the
workforce, BAL provides all its employees various opportunities for skill upgradation. In the year
2018-19, more than 4,800 employees were trained through 311 training programmes, spanning 7,900
man-days. Over and above this, employees were given training through TPM pillars, which included
Safety, Health and Environment related training spanning 5,319 man-days. This facility is also extended
to the employees and workmen of suppliers, dealers and international distributors.

BAL’s flagship leadership development programme, ‘Act to Adapt’, designed in collaboration with IIM
– Ahmedabad continues to nurture future leaders for the Company. Since last year, the scope has been
expanded to cover employees in higher positions, through a leadership programme ‘Adapt to Align’.
This enables smooth transition of employees into their new roles. BAL is now aligned to the leadership
competency framework (Anticipate – Align – Adapt – Act).

In order to ensure that the service providers are compliant with all applicable norms, the Company
conducts regular supplier audits. BAL also has in place a ‘Charter of Fair and Responsible Workplace
Guidelines’ for employees of service providers and collaborative employee relations.

While there were no complaints filed or pending relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary
labour or discriminatory employment during the year 2018-19, one complaint related to sexual
harassment was filed and closed during the same period as per laid down procedure.

Extending its focus on employee wellbeing, BAL organised a book exhibition cum sale at its Akurdi
plant. In association with leading book distributors, the initiative focused on developing reading habits
amongst its employees,

The Company has launched schemes like Car Lease and Corporate NPS Scheme for Level 3 and
above employees.

With an aim to promote continuous learning, world class learning and technical expertise to Bajaj Auto,
a collaboration with Loughborough University, UK, was signed in 2017. The University is ranked among
the top 10 universities of UK. The first batch of 6 Bajaj Auto employees joined the University in October
2018 for the 2 courses i.e. M.Sc. – Mechanical Engineering & M.Sc. – Automotive Systems Engineering.

In August 2018, Bajaj Auto has launched an e-learning library from a US based Company “THORS”, on
Manufacturing processes & Engineering applications suitable for Plants, Engineering and Supply Chain.
A total of 528 learners attended 1,835 courses in more than 75 topics. Going forward, this will enable
more employees to the learning process due to flexibility & ease of access at any time through internet
in a very cost effective way.

Company has launched the new Flextime Policy for Level 3 and above employees.


Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive
towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged,
vulnerable and marginalised
As an equal opportunity employer, BAL ensures that there is no discrimination of any type for socially
disadvantaged sections in the work place. To formalise its commitment, it launched the ‘Code of
Conduct for Affirmative Action’ in 2006, which ensures that preference is given to people from socially
disadvantaged sections of the society, provided merit and other business considerations are equal.

During the year 2018-19, BAL recruited 2,863 new employees of which 242 (8.45%) belong to scheduled
castes and scheduled tribes and 845 (29.51%) to other backward classes.


                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         5
    Directors' Report




              Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
              BAL strives to uphold the human rights of all its internal and external stakeholders and ensures
              compliance with all applicable laws. In this regard, a legal compliance report is submitted to the
              Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. There were no complaints on violation of human
              rights in the year 2018-19.


              Principle 6: Business should respect, protect and make efforts to restore
              the environment
              Responsible use of natural resources and adoption of sustainable practices enable BAL to move
              forward in its endeavour to minimise the environmental impact of its operations. As a responsible
              company, it is committed to creating and preserving a clean environment and society. BAL continues to
              remain in full compliance with all applicable regulations and is dedicated to the continual improvement
              of its safety, occupational health and environmental performance.

              The decisions of the Company are guided by BAL’s Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Policy. ‘Safety’
              helps in the creation of a safe working environment, thereby minimising the risk of accidents. ‘Health’
              includes provision of individual health check-ups, worker training on hygiene and health practices,
              access to safe drinking water, noise reduction, etc. ‘Environment’ is related to the initiatives that reduce
              air, water and land pollution, as well as management of hazardous waste and resource conservation.
              All these form the core of “Yutori” a Japanese concept of overall happiness, which is followed in
              all the plants.

              With the aim of reducing packaging waste generation, the Company has replaced wooden crates with
              steel frames. Additionally, plywood and thermocol have been replaced by corrugated or eco-link
              boards, thereby reducing the requirement of virgin material.

              Plant-wise highligts of key environmental initiatives are provided below:

              Chakan plant                                           Waluj plant


              Gold Award for safety initiatives and safety skit by   4.11% reduction in specific power consumption
              Quality Circle Forum of India, Pune Chapter            (KWH/vehicle)
              Continued use of roof-top solar system with            5.81% reduction in specific LPG consumption
              generation of 24.26 Lakh units in FY2018-19, leading   (kg/vehicle)
              to reduction of 2,037 Tons of CO2e
              2,000 saplings planted inside the plant as part of     Installation of Volute Sludge Dewatering System
              Environment Day Celebrations                           at ETP
              Kaizens for resource conservation have led             Installation of Diffused Aeration at Equalisation
              to reduction of 8.18% in power, 16.53% in fuel         Tanks of ETP and STP
              consumption. Also, packaging material consumption      Certified with Latest version of ISO 14001,
              has led to the following consumption reduction in      i.e, 14001:2015
              FY2018-19: Plastic 5.24 tons, Corrugated
                                                                     Installation and start-up of CVD 2nd Stage RO II plant
              Material 86 tons and Wood 680 tons.
                                                                     for water recycling in processes
              Successfully completed 2nd surveillance IMS audit      Training on Behaviour Base Safety given to 8,942
              with ISO 14001-2015 & OHSAS 18001                      employees including Service provider
              Celebration of Energy Conservation week                3.89% reduction in specific carbon emission
                                                                     (kg/vehicle)
                                                                     Celebration of Energy Conservation Week




6   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Directors' Report



Pantnagar plant                                                Akurdi plant


5.72% reduction in specific power consumption (KWH/vehicle) 58% of electricity sourced from
Achieved Power consumption of 5.93 Units./Veh. (lowest)     renewable sources
6% reduction in specific LPG consumption
(kg/vehicle)
25% reduction in water consumption (m3/Month). Achieved        3.2 MW installed solar capacity with generation
specific water consumption at 0.060                            of 28.42 lakh units in FY2018-19
m3/vehicle
Installation of RO Plant to convert ETP Treated water in
RO & used in Paint shop
Installation of DC Brushless Motors in Paint shop              Kaizens have reduced power consumption by
ASU Blower                                                     90,000 units/year
Installation of more efficient heat transfer chemical
(Hydromx) in Hot Water Generator which causes 30% faster
heat transfer as compared to water
Training of 600 man-days on safety topics. Recorded zero
major and minor accidents
Celebration of Road Safety Week, Safety week & World           Use of LED lights in office, shop floor and
Environment Day                                                street lighting
Certified with the latest version of ISO 14001,                Certified with the latest version of ISO 14001,
i.e., ISO 14001-2015                                           i.e., ISO 14001-2015


Other Initiatives



100% of canteen waste at Pantnagar and Chakan is composted. At Chakan, Black Soldier Fly Larvae (BSFL)
has been introduced to compost canteen waste and convert it into animal feed.
Use of PNG at Chakan, Pantnagar and Akurdi plants.
100% Compliance to Maharashtra Plastic Ban Notification, 2018 at Akurdi, Chakan and Waluj plants.
Both Waluj and Chakan continue their water positive status with patented rain water harvesting structures.


All Four Plants



Zero Effluent Discharge (outside plant).
Certified with the latest version of ISO 9001, i.e., ISO 9001-2015 as well as OHSAS 18001-2007.
Celebration of National Safety Week.



All plants of BAL operate as per the ‘Consent-to-Operate’ provided by the respective State Pollution
Control Board (SPCB) and are within permissible limits with regards to the emissions and waste
generated. No show-cause notice was received from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) or the
respective SPCB.


Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and
regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner
BAL is a responsible member of various national as well as international associations and actively
engages in policy advocacy. It presents its views on the setting of new industry standards and
regulatory developments pertaining to the automotive manufacturing industry. Areas covered include
governance and administration, economic reforms and inclusive development policies, among others.
Some of the key associations of which BAL is a member of, are:

     l     Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
     l     Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers




                                                                                         12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          7
    Directors' Report




                   l    World Economic Forum
                   l    Federation of Indian Export Organisations
                   l    The Automotive Research Association of India
                   l    Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture
                   l    NAFEMS Ltd.
                   l    National Safety Council
                   l    The Advertising Standards Council of India
                   l    Indian Merchant Chamber
                   l    Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry
                   l    Engineering Export Promotion Council of India


              Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and
              equitable development
              The vision and philosophy of late Shri Jamnalal Bajaj, founder of the Bajaj Group, guided the Corporate
              Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the Group. He embodied the concept of trusteeship in business
              and common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and transparent functioning.

              Through its social investments, the Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the
              vicinity of its facilities by taking initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment conservation,
              infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities. The Group is not only a
              corporate identity but also a catalyst for social empowerment and the reason behind the smiles that
              light up a million faces.

              The Company’s goodwill resonates in its new global identity campaign ‘World’s Favourite Indian’, that
              live in the collective consciousness of its customers across the globe.


              Guiding Principles:
              The Bajaj Group believes that social investments should:

              l    Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
                   generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society over
                   long periods.

              l    Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
                   strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.

              l    Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education and
                   productivity.

              l    Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
                   to create excellence for self and for the team.

              l    Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it has
                   a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.

              l    Target those who need it most: Care for sections of the society, which are socially at the lowest
                   rungs irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.

              l    Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
                   adverse impact on the environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.


              Our Activities
              (Please refer to the Annual Report on CSR activities for a detailed list of partners and grant amounts)




8   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Directors' Report




1. JANKIDEVI BAJAJ GRAM VIKAS SANSTHA (JBGVS)
   JBGVS is a registered Society and a Trust, founded in 1987. It is an apolitical, rural development
   organisation assisting participating rural community in the selected 146 villages of Pune,
   Aurangabad and Wardha Districts of Maharashtra, as well as Sikar District in Rajasthan and
   Pantnagar of Uttarakhand. JBGVS, since 1987, has successfully implemented 16 major schemes
   and projects of the Government and 12 projects funded by agencies other than the Government.
   The activities that are carried out by JBGVS are given in succeeding paragraphs.

   l    Bajaj Water Conservation Project (BWCP): With the aim of conservation of water, JBGVS has
        launched the first phase of Bajaj Water Conservation Project in 51 villages of Paithan and
        Gangapur taluka of Aurangabad District and the second phase in 110 villages of Gangapur and
        Aurangabad talkuas, which are tanker fed for 6 to 9 months. It is anticipated that while a total
        of 2,40,418 people will be direct beneficiaries of this programme, around 45,550 households
        will be benefitted from this project. While the total outlay of this programme is around
        H 19,900 lakh for a period of 5 years, Bajaj Auto has already spent more than H 8,000 lakh.

   l    The Bajaj Education Initiative (BEI): BEI focuses on improving quality of education in
        Government and low cost private schools in Pune, specifically in Pimpri-Chinchwad area.
        During the reporting period, BEI has conducted 68 various programmes covering 6,840
        students, 652 teachers and 2,800 parents, across 51 schools, thereby covering a total of
        10,292 beneficiaries. A total of 4 Computer Labs were established taking the total number to
        67. Apart from this, seven e-learning kits were provided during the year taking the cumulative
        number to 1,677. As part of BAL’s commitment to promote quality education for children,
        various initiatives have benefitted more than 25,000 students in approximately 200 schools
        across Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand.

   l    School Construction in Khed (Pune) and Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand: To provide
        good quality education in primary schools, especially for children of socio-economically
        marginalised communities, JBGVS has started the construction of 70 schools in 52 villages.

   l    A similar school support programme – “School Adoption” has been initiated by JBGVS
        Pantnagar at the request of authorities in Udhamsingh Nagar.

   l    Samaj Seva Kendra (SSK): SSK is a social welfare centre that aims ‘to provide facilities for
        development and improvement of the quality of life of the workers, their families and general
        population of surrounding area.’ SSK also provides a platform for education, culture, sports,
        healthcare and vocational training to local communities. Similar SSK based activities have
        been started in Aurangabad, Wardha, and Pantnagar.


2. EDUCATION AND LIVELIHOOD
   In addition to this, within the period under review, your Company has supported 35 projects under
   the education and livelihood sector and disbursed an amount of H 2,670 lakh. Some major projects
   are as follows:

   l    Bharatiya Yuva Shakti Trust (BYST): Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme:
        BYST’s prime objective is to empower young dynamic entrepreneurs (between the age of 18-
        35 years), who are not exposed to right opportunities and integrate them into the economic
        mainstream. A unique feature of the BYST programme is that each entrepreneur is assigned
        a mentor, drawn from the industry, who gives voluntary personalised advice and support.

   l    Room to Read: Room to Read’s literacy programme addresses critical gaps that exist
        throughout India’s early-grade literacy curriculum and within primary school resources
        and learning aids. This programme will address 120 new schools in Maharashtra and
        Uttarakhand, benefiting around 18,600 children.




                                                                                   12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19         9
     Directors' Report




                  IBTADA: The organisation has promoted 1,700 women SHGs, with a total membership of
                    l

                  about 20,000 members. IBTADA has successfully innovated a Sakhi model (women change
                  agent) in the areas that where it operates. IBTADA is currently working with 100 Government
                  schools to improve learning outcomes as part of the Bajaj funded project.
               		
                l Round-Table India: Round Table India is an organisation of young businessmen dedicated to
                  provide quality, education and better infrastructure facilities in low-income schools.
                  The organisation, established in 1999 in India, has constructed 2588 schools across the
                  country, so far.

                    l    Chinmaya Organisation for Rural Development (CORD)Himachal Pradesh The Bajaj Group
                         has supported CORD to empower women's groups called Mahila Mandals, Self Help Groups,
                         Adolescent Girls Groups and Children Groups to enhance livelihood opportunities in the
                         selected Panchayats of Dhola Devi and Dwarahat blocks of Almora district, with a total
                         population of 5000 people in 800 households.

                    l    BAIF Institute for Sustainable Livelihood Development, Uttarakhand BISLD has built 50
                         cattle development centers in 5 districts (Udhamsingh Nagar, Nainital, Champawat, Almora,
                         Bageshwar) of Uttarakhand, which will provide services to 500 villages and 27,500 families.


               3. HEALTH
                    Within the period under review, your Company has supported 18 projects and disbursed an
                    amount of H 1,423 lakh. Some major projects worth mentioning are:

                    l    Grant Medical Foundation (Ruby Hall Clinic): Being a charitable trust hospital, medical
                         care for the underprivileged has always been a priority for the management. The hospital
                         conducts free camps in the farflung areas of Maharashtra in order to benefit the rural
                         population. Bajaj Auto has supported this institution with a donation of H 700 lakh for
                         procurement of a Digital PET CT machine for the hospital, which will be installed in the
                         hospital campus in its Nuclear Medicine Department.

                    l    Shrimati Rupa Rahul Bajaj Annamrita Centre: Under the mid-day meal programme of
                         Government of Maharashtra, “Annamritra Foundation” (formerly known as ISKCON Food
                         Relief Foundation), is providing meals to 22,000 children per day in PCMC schools. They
                         intend to take this number to 50,000 children per day.

                    l    Vision Spring: Bajaj Drishti Project: In May 2017, Bajaj Auto Limited and Vision Spring
                         (supported by JBGVS) launched the Bajaj Drishti Project in Maharashtra. ‘Bajaj Drishti’ aims
                         to screen 100,000 low-income community members and school children with vision issues
                         and provide eyeglasses or refer them for further diagnosis and treatment to a specialist.

                    l    Bajaj YCMH ART Centre: The Bajaj YCMH ART (Anti Retro-Viral Therapy) Centre at
                         Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, Pimpri, Pune, has been in operation since August
                         2008. The arrangement is between NACO, YCMH and BAL. Over the years, the centre has
                         provided treatment to 16,170 HIV patients with a daily flow of more than 200 patients.

                    l    The Kamalnayan Bajaj Hospital, Aurangabad: The Kamalnayan Bajaj Hospital, which is a
                         charitable institute, extends services to below poverty line (BPL) and Economically Weaker
                         Section (EWS) of society. While the treatment for BPL patients is free, for EWS it is subsidised
                         to the extent of 50%. Till date, this scheme has benefitted 1,44,040 patients and an amount of
                         H 14.80 crore (approx.) has been spent on it.

                    l    Pravara Medical Trust: In collaboration with Pravara Medical Trust, the Bajaj motorcycle
                         ambulance project is serving the poor in remote regions, where people had been dying
                         because they could not be taken to the hospital in time.




10   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                     Directors' Report




    l    Malnutrition: The prevalence of underweight children in India is among the highest in the
         world. This issue is addressed through Bajaj Holdings & Investment Limited (the sister
         concern of Bajaj Auto Limited) covering 410 villages in Palghar, Nandurbar, Gadchiroli,
         Amravati, Banswara, Udaipur, Nainital and Almora. A total of 26,435 families will be
         supported under these projects which will benefit 20,095 children and 37,406 pregnant and
         lactating women.

    l    Installation of community based sustainable drinking water system: As part of the Bajaj
         Drinking Water Project, “Community managed Sustainable Drinking Water Systems” in
         technical partnership with Toyam Technologies India Pvt Ltd, Pune, have been setup by
         JBGVS. The overall goal of the project is to provide safe and clean drinking water to villages
         with the participation of local community in a way that it serves as a long-term solution for
         the villagers.


4. ENVIRONMENT
    Within the period under review, your Company has supported 9 projects and disbursed an amount
    of H 1,600 lakh. Some more projects being executed by JBGVS, in addition to the Bajaj water
    conservation project are:

    l    Bajaj Maza Gaon Swachha Gaon – Gangapur & Lasur Station: The Bajaj Maza Gaon
         Swachha Gaon project is a collaboration between BAL, Centre for Applied Research (CARPE)
         and Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, which aims to improve and enhance the solid waste
         management practices in Aurangabad City.

    l    Foundation for Ecological Security, Anand, Gujarat: Degradation of land and water
         resources in the catchment areas is one of the most serious problems being faced, which
         is manifested due to depleting water supplies. The project, which covers an area of 35,000
         hectares has been initiated in Bhilwada, Udaipur, Rajsamand, Chhitorgarh, Pratapgarh
         districts of Rajasthan.

    l    People’s Science Institute, Dehradun, Uttrakhand: Spring shed development project
         has been initiated in Almora, Champawat, Dehradun, Nainital, Pauri, Pithoragarh and
         Rudraprayag, districts of Uttarakhand. The proposed programme aims to regenerate and
         protect 50 critical springs in five water scarce districts of Uttarakhand.

    l    Shramajivi Janta Shahayak Mandal, Satara: The Project is in Mann Taluka of Satara district,
         Maharashtra. The project area has 4 villages covering an area of 5,224 hectares and benefits
         1,136 Households with 6,251 population. The major issue associated with this area is low
         rainfall. Average annual rainfall for the last 10 years in the project area has been 451.31mm
         with severe scarcity of potable drinking water. The villagers, especially women, have to spend
         lot of their time and energy on fetching water for drinking purposes from distant places during
         summer season. The Bajaj Group is supporting this project with funding of H 1,185 lakh.


5. OTHER DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
		
  Within the period under review, your Company has supported 6 projects and disbursed an amount
  of H 1,337 lakh. Major projects under this head are:

    l    Mann Deshi Foundation, Satara: Government of Maharashtra (GoM) has declared 151 Talukas
         from 26 districts as drought hit areas. Villagers from these drought affected villages are selling
         their cattle due to shortage of fodder and water. Due to this, farmers are losing their assured
         source of income. In order to overcome this, “Chara Chavani” or Cattle Relief Camps, have been
         organised through Mann Deshi Foundation in drought affected areas.

    l    Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana: A similar project of the same size would be put up in
         Aurangabad, managed by Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana (BJS). BJS will manage this “Chara
         Chavani” for a duration of four months with the help of a professional team. Supply of Fodder
         and water will be provided to the cattle at this camp.




                                                                                     12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19          11
     Directors' Report




                    l    Support to people during natural calamities: During the period under review, your
                         Company has supported flood affected people of Kerala with a contribution of H 200 lakh
                         through JBGVS.

                    l    Safety and Disaster Management Department: BAL’s Safety and Disaster Management
                         Department team attended to fire calls outside the plants for several firefighting and
                         rescue operations.


               6. STAFF VOLUNTEERING
                    l    Arpan: Aimed at promotion of social consciousness among Bajaj employees and the society,
                         Arpan is undertaking a lot of activities in and around Pune through staff volunteering.
                         Activities undertaken include water conservation, promotion of yoga, support to tribal
                         communities, painting and repairing of classrooms, etc.


               Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their
               customers and consumers in a responsible manner
               All the customer engagement activities of Bajaj Auto Limited are guided by its ‘Distinctly Ahead’
               philosophy. BAL has multiple media through which it interacts with its customers and collects their
               feedback to identify customer satisfaction levels. These include service centres, web-based interfaces,
               dealer showrooms and call centres. BAL also conducts regular surveys with the dealers, brokers,
               retailers and roadside mechanics.

               BAL’s Service Strategy is aimed at:

                    l    Augmentation of network effectiveness
                    l    Enhancing service quality
                    l    Improving service reach

               In line with this approach, the Company has launched a Bajaj Care Service mobile app for its customers.
               To enhance its service quality and reach, BAL regularly engages with local service providers with
               structured familiarisation programmes and trainings.

               With the view that dealers are the face of the Company, multiple initiatives have been taken to enhance
               the quality of service provided by dealers. These initiatives include Dealer Service Quality Standard
               Audits, Kaizen Awards and Skill Contests, besides the roll-out of the ‘Centralised Dealer Management
               System’ (CDMS) for all the dealers. As a step towards providing quick and effective customer support,
               the call centres have been integrated with the CDMS, which enables the support executive to access all
               the customer related data with the help of his mobile number.

               With the aim of ensuring that its customers remain safe while driving its vehicles and use the vehicles
               in the most efficient manner, BAL provides an owner’s manual with each vehicle. The manual includes
               safety check mechanisms, dos and don’ts and fuel saving tips. Additionally, it conducts pre-monsoon
               campaigns, focused on safe driving and preventive check-up tips for the season. During the year
               2018-19, 109 cases were filed at the consumer forum, while 378 cases are pending as on
               31 March 2019.

               As a responsible company, BAL’s marketing department ensures hygiene factors in all advertisements,
               such as displaying helmets being used by all passengers on bikes and disclaimers for advertisements
               with bikes performing stunts. BAL is a signatory to Advertising Standard Council of India (ASCI), who
               can evaluate and provide corrective recommendations for advertisements.

               In January 2019, the Company announced its new global brand identity, ‘The World's Favourite Indian’.
               This revamped identity reflects its significant success in the overseas market, as a global motorcycle
               powerhouse over a period of 17 years. The Company has significantly invested in technology and
               innovation to design motorcycles that are loved not only in India but 70 countries around the world.




12   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                Directors' Report




The new brand identity would be communicated through experiential and traditional media.


Commercial vehicles:
As part of its customer empowerment programme, BAL continues to support the ‘Swarozgar Campaign’
and the ‘Driver Bane Malik’ initiative. The former enables rural youth to enter the three-wheeler
business, while in the latter, contract drivers are assisted in purchasing their own vehicles. BAL also
has ‘Certified Service Technician’ and ‘Power Technician’ programmes aimed at upgrading the skills of
technicians by providing them training and tools. These enable them to provide better service to BAL
customers, while also increasing their earning potential. The ‘Certified Service Technician’ programme
currently has more than 1,381 empanelled technicians spread across India. A yearly ‘Road Safety
Campaign’ is also conducted at more than 82 locations, which not only includes a check of the vehicle’s
health condition, but also covers an eye check-up of drivers.


Motorcycles:
With the aim of providing an enhanced riding experience and engaging the customers in new and
innovative ways, the marketing team organises various programmes. These programmes include riding
activation tours, biking tours, detour challenges, knowledge sessions and expeditions. There are also
some exclusive programmes for customers of the higher-end motorbike, which enable the customers
to experience their bikes in a safe and controlled environment, based on their skill stage – beginning,
amateur, trained and professional.




                                                                                  12th ANNUAL REPORT 2018-19        13
