                          Bajaj Auto Limited,
                          Akurdi, Pune 411 035, India.

                          Tel +91 20 27472851
                          Fax +91 20 27473398
                          bajajauto.com
BAJAJ


                 4 July 2022

                   To                                       To
                   Corporate Relations Department           Corporate Listing Department
                   BSE Limited                              National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
                   1st Floor, New Trading Ring              Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor
                   Rotunda Building, P J Tower              Plot No.C-1, G Block
                   Dalal Street                             Bandra-Kurla Complex
                   Mumbai 400 001                           Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
                   BSE Code: 532977                         NSE Code: BAJAJ-AUTO

                 Subject: Annual Report for FY2022 and Notice of 15th Annual General Meeting (AGM)

                  Dear Sirs/Madam,

                 This is further to our letter dated 27 April 2022, wherein the Company had informed that the
                 AGM of the Company is scheduled to be held on Tuesday, 26 July 2022.

                 Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) read with Regulation 30 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
                 Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended, please find enclosed the following
                 documents for FY2022, as circulated to the shareholders through electronic mode:

                      •    Notice of 15th Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on Tuesday, 26 July 2022
                           through Video Conferencing/ Other Audio-Visual Means.
                      •    AnnualReport
                      •    Business Responsibility Report (BRR)

                 Aforesaid documents are also available on the website of the                 Company,      i.e.
                 https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance    and on        the
                 website of KFin Technologies Limited at https://evoting.kfintech.com.

                Please take the above on your record .

                 Thanking you,

                 Yours faithfully,
                 For Bajaj Auto limited


                   ~
                 Dr. J Sridhar
                 Company Secretary

                 Encl: As above




Registered Office Akurdi Pune 411035 India                                                         CIN L65993PN2007PLC130076
                                                                                                                BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                                CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

                                                                                                                Regd. Office:
                                                                                                                Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                                                Akurdi, Pune 411 035
                                                                                                                E-mail ID: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                                                                Website: www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                                Phone: 020-2747 2851
                                                                                                                Fax: 020-2740 7380




                                                              AGM NOTICE

Notice is hereby given that the fifteenth annual general meeting of the shareholders of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘BAL’ or the ‘Company’) will be
held on Tuesday, 26 July 2022 at 2.00 p.m. through video conferencing (‘VC’)/Other Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’) facility to transact the
following business:

ORDINARY BUSINESS

1.   To consider and adopt the standalone and consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2022,
     together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.

2.   To declare a dividend.

3.   To appoint a director in place of Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

4.   To appoint a director in place of Madhur Bajaj (DIN 00014593), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

5.   To consider, and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modifications, the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:

     “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 139, 142 and all other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and
     the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in
     force) and pursuant to recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors , S R B C & CO LLP, Chartered Accountants
     (Firm Registration No: 324982E/E300003), be and is hereby appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company for a second term of
     five consecutive years to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the twentieth annual general meeting
     of the Company and on such remuneration as may be decided by the Board of Directors in consultation with the Statutory Auditors
     of the Company.”

SPECIAL BUSINESS

6.   Re-appointment of Dr. Naushad Forbes as an Independent Director of the Company for a second term of five 			
     consecutive years with effect from 18 May 2022

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

     “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of section 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
     referred to as the ‘Act’), the Rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Act and the applicable provisions of the Securities and
     Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Listing
     Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force),
     based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company,
     Dr. Naushad Darius Forbes (DIN 00630825), who was appointed as an independent director of the Company for a term of five years
     up to 17 May 2022 and is eligible for being re-appointed as an independent director and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to
     section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner and considering the report of his performance evaluation for the year
     2021-22, be and is hereby re-appointed as an independent director on the Board of the Company for a second term of five consecutive
     years, effective from 18 May 2022 up to 17 May 2027.

     “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
     thereunder, Dr. Naushad Darius Forbes be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may approve
     from time to time and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.”



                                                                                        15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                1
    Notice




    7.     Re-appointment of Anami N. Roy as an Independent Director of the Company for a second term of five consecutive
           years with effect from 14 September 2022

           To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

           “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of section 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
           referred to as the ‘Act’), the Rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Act and the applicable provisions of the Securities and
           Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Listing
           Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force),
           based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company,
           Anami N. Roy (DIN 01361110), who was appointed as an independent director of the Company for a term of five years up to
           13 September 2022 and is eligible for being re-appointed as an independent director and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant
           to section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner and considering the report of his performance evaluation for
           the year 2021-22, be and is hereby re-appointed as an independent director on the Board of the Company for a second term of five
           consecutive years, effective from 14 September 2022 up to 13 September 2027.

           “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, approval be and is hereby given for continuation
           of Anami N. Roy, beyond 15 May 2025, as an independent director of the Company on account of his attaining the age of 75 years on
           the said date.

           “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
           thereunder, Anami N. Roy be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may approve from time to time
           and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.”




    By order of the Board of Directors
    For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




    Dr. J Sridhar
    Company Secretary
    Pune: 14 June 2022




2        Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                              Notice




                                                                  NOTES:
1    In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) vide its circular dated 5 May 2020 read with circulars dated
     13 January 2021, 8 December 2021, 14 December 2021 and 5 May 2022 (collectively referred to as ‘MCA Circulars’) and SEBI vide its
     circular dated 13 May 2022 permitted the holding of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) through VC/OAVM facility, without the physical
     presence of the members at a common venue. In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’), SEBI (Listing
     Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) and the relevant MCA Circulars, the AGM of the
     Company this year as well is being conducted through VC/OAVM, hereinafter called as ‘e-AGM’. KFin Technologies Ltd. (‘KFin’) will be
     providing facility for voting through remote e-voting, participation in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and e-voting during the AGM.
     The procedure for participating in the meeting through VC/OAVM is explained at Note No. 33C below.

2    The venue for fifteenth e-AGM shall be the registered office of the Company.

3    Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on
     his/her behalf and the proxy need not be a member of the Company. Since this e-AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through
     VC/OAVM facility, physical attendance of members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the
     members will not be available for the e-AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice. In this notice,
     the terms member(s) or shareholder(s) are used interchangeably.

4    Institutional/Corporate Shareholders (i.e. other than individuals/HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format)
     of its Board or governing body Resolution/Authorization etc., authorizing its representative to attend the e-AGM on its behalf and to
     vote through remote e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to the Scrutinizer by e-mail through its registered e-mail
     address to cssdlimaye@gmail.com with a copy marked to mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com.

5    Statement pursuant to section 102 of the Act forms part of this Notice. The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 27 April 2022 has
     decided that the special businesses set out under item no. 6 to 7, being considered ‘unavoidable’, be transacted at the fifteenth e-AGM
     of the Company.

6    Brief details of the directors, who are seeking appointment/re-appointment, are annexed hereto as per requirements of regulation 36(3)
     of the Listing Regulations and as per provisions of the Act.

7    The facility of joining the e-AGM through VC/OAVM will be opened 30 minutes before and will be open upto 30 minutes after the scheduled
     start time of the e-AGM, i.e. from 1.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. and will be available for 1,000 members on a first-come first-served basis. This
     rule would however not apply to participation of shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding, promoters, institutional investors,
     directors, key and senior managerial personnel, auditors etc.

8    Institutional Investors, who are members of the Company are encouraged to attend and vote at the fifteenth e-AGM of the Company.

9    The Board of Directors has recommended dividend of H 140 per equity share of the face value of H 10 each for the year ended 31 March
     2022 for the approval of shareholders at the ensuing e-AGM.

10   Pursuant to the provisions of section 91 of the Act and regulation 42 of the Listing Regulations, the Company has fixed Friday, 1 July 2022
     as the ‘Record Date’ for the purpose of determining the members eligible to receive dividend for the financial year 2021-22.

11   Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income is taxable in the hands of the Shareholders w.e.f. 1 April 2020, and the Company
     is required to deduct TDS from dividend paid to the members at prescribed rates in the Income Tax Act, 1961 (‘the IT Act’). In general,
     to enable compliance with TDS requirements, members are requested to complete and/or update their Residential Status, PAN, Category
     as per the IT Act with their Depository Participants (‘DPs’) or in case shares are held in physical form, with the Company by sending
     documents by 11 July 2022 (upto 5:30 p.m.). For the detailed process and formats of declaration, please refer to FAQs on Tax Deduction
     at Source on Dividends available on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/dividend

12   Subject to the provisions of section 126 of the Act, dividend on equity shares, if declared at the AGM, will be credited/dispatched on
     Saturday, 30 July 2022 as under:

     a)   to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided by share transfer agent of the Company i.e.
          KFin to the Company, as of or before the closing hours on Friday, 1 July 2022 and

     b)   to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form, as per the beneficial ownership data made available to the Company
          by National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) as of the close of business
          hours on Friday, 1 July 2022.

13   As per the Listing Regulations and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 20 April 2018, the Company shall use any electronic mode of payment
     approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment to the members. Accordingly, the dividend, if declared will be paid through
     electronic mode, where the bank account details of the shareholders required for this purpose are available. Where dividend payments
     are made through electronic mode, intimation regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the shareholders. Where the dividend
     cannot be paid through electronic mode, the same will be paid through physical instrument such as non-negotiable instruments with bank
     account details of such shareholders printed thereon.



                                                                                      15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                  3
    Notice




    14   To ensure timely credit of dividend through electronic mode or physical instrument such as banker’s cheque or demand draft, members
         are requested to notify change of address or particulars of their bank account, if any, to share transfer agent - KFin and to their respective
         depository participants.

    15   To avoid fraudulent transactions, the identity/signature of the members holding shares in electronic/demat form is verified with the
         specimen signatures furnished by NSDL/CDSL and that of members holding shares in physical form is verified as per the records of the
         share transfer agent of the Company. Members are requested to keep the same updated.

    16   SEBI has, vide circular dated 3 November 2021, mandated the furnishing of PAN, Address with PIN, email address, mobile number,
         bank account details and nomination by holders of physical securities. Folios wherein any one of the cited documents/details are not
         available on or after 1 April 2023, shall be frozen by the Registrars and Transfer Agent of the Company. Members are requested to
         furnish the details in the prescribed form to KFin. Forms can be downloaded from the website of the Company at
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous and website of KFin at https://risop.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/

    17   In terms of section 101 and 136 of the Act, read together with the rules made thereunder, the listed companies may send the notice of
         annual general meeting and the annual report, including Financial Statements, Board Report, etc. by electronic mode. Pursuant to the said
         provisions of the Act read with MCA Circulars, SEBI Circular dated 13 May 2022, Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 2021-22
         is being sent only through electronic mode to those members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/Depositories.
         Members may note that the Notice and Annual Report 2021-22 will also be available on the Company’s website
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance, website of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Ltd.
         at www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. at www.nseindia.com and on the website of KFin at www.kfintech.com

    18   To receive communications through electronic means, including Annual Reports and Notices, members are requested to kindly register/
         update their e-mail address with their respective depository participants, where shares are held in demat mode.

    19   Members who have not registered their e-mail addresses and mobile nos. and consequently could not be served the Annual Report for
         FY2022 and Notice of fifteenth e-AGM, may temporarily get themselves registered with KFin, by following the procedure mentioned below:

         (a)   Visit the link: https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/mobilereg/mobilee-mailreg.aspx

         (b)   Select the company name i.e. Bajaj Auto Ltd.

         (c)   Select the Holding type from the drop down i.e. - NSDL/CDSL/Physical

         (d)   Enter DP ID – Client ID (in case shares are held in electronic form)/Physical Folio No. (in case shares are held in physical form) and
               PAN.

         (e)   If PAN details are not available in the system, the system will prompt to upload a self-attested copy of the PAN card for updating
               records.

         (f)   In case shares are held in physical form and PAN is not available in the records, please enter any one of the Share Certificate No. in
               respect of the shares held by you.

         (g)   Enter the e-mail address and mobile number.

         (h)   System will validate DP ID – Client ID/Folio No. and PAN/Share certificate No., as the case may be, and send OTP at the registered
               mobile number as well as e-mail address for validation.

         (i)   Enter the OTPs received by SMS and e-mail to complete the validation process. OTP will be valid for 5 minutes only.

         (j)   The Notice and e-voting instructions along with the User ID and Password will be sent on the e-mail address updated by the
               member.

         (k)   In case the shares are held in electronic form, the above facility is only for temporary registration of e-mail address for receipt of the
               Notice and the e-voting instructions along with the User ID and Password. Such members will have to register their e-mail address
               with their DPs permanently, so that all communications are received by them in electronic form.

         (l)   In case of queries, members are requested to write to einward.ris@kfintech.com or call at the toll free number 1800-309-4001.

    20   The Company has availed of services offered by CDSL and NSDL to update e-mail addresses of shareholders of the Company who have
         not registered their e-mail addresses. Members are requested to respond to their messages and register their e-mail id and support the
         green initiative efforts of the Company. Members are also requested to support our commitment to environmental protection by choosing
         to receive the Company’s communication through e-mail going forward.

    21   With a view to helping us serve the members better, members who hold shares in identical names and in the same order of names in
         more than one folio are requested to write to the Company to consolidate their holdings in one folio.




4    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                             Notice




22   SEBI vide its circular dated 25 January 2022, has mandated listed companies shall henceforth issue the securities in dematerialised
     form only, while processing service requests such as issue of duplicate share certificates, transmission, transposition, etc. Accordingly,
     members who still hold share certificates in physical form are advised to dematerialise their holdings.

23   In case of joint holders, the member whose name appears as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register of Members of the
     Company will be entitled to vote at the e-AGM.

24   The Company has been maintaining, inter alia, the following statutory registers at its registered office at Akurdi, Pune-411035:

     i)    Register of contracts or arrangements in which directors are interested under section 189 of the Act.

     ii)   Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding under section 170 of the Act.

     In accordance with the MCA circulars, the said registers shall be made accessible for inspection through electronic mode, which shall
     remain open and be accessible to any member during the continuance of the meeting.

25   Certificate from Auditors of the Company certifying that the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2019 of the Company is being
     implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, will also be available for inspection
     by the members through electronic mode.

26   For ease of conduct, members who would like to ask questions/express their views on the items of the businesses to be transacted at
     the meeting can send in their questions/comments in advance by visiting URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/and clicking on the tab
     “Post your Queries” during the period starting from 19 July 2022 (9.00 a.m.) upto 23 July 2022 (5.00 p.m.) mentioning their name, demat
     account no./Folio no., e-mail id, mobile number etc. The queries may be raised precisely and in brief to enable the Company to answer the
     same suitably depending on the availability of time at the meeting.

27   Pursuant to section 72 of the Act read with SEBI Circular dated 3 November 2021 and clarification circular dated 14 December 2021,
     members holding shares in physical form are advised to file nomination in the prescribed Form SH-13 or Form ISR-3 (Declaration to
     Opt-out). The form can be downloaded from the website of the Company at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous and
     RTA at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/ In respect of shares held in electronic/demat form, the members may please contact
     their respective depository participant.

28   In terms of section 124(5) of the Act, dividend amount for the year ended 31 March 2015 remaining unclaimed for a period of seven years
     shall become due for transfer in August/September 2022 to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the
     Central Government.

     Further, in terms of section 124(6) of the Act, in case of such shareholders whose dividends are unpaid for a continuous period of seven
     years, the corresponding shares shall be transferred to the IEPF demat account.

     Members who have not claimed dividends in respect of the financial years from 2014-15 onwards are requested to approach the
     Company/KFin for claiming the same as early as possible, to avoid transfer of the relevant shares to the IEPF’s demat account.

29   For more details on shareholders’ matters, please refer to the chapter on General Shareholder Information, included in the Annual Report.

30   Since the meeting will be conducted through VC/OAVM facility, the Route Map is not annexed to this Notice.

31   In case a person has become a member of the Company after dispatch of AGM Notice, but on or before the cut-off date for e-voting, i.e.,
     Tuesday, 19 July 2022, such person may obtain the User ID and Password from KFin by e-mail request on einward.ris@kfintech.com

32   Alternatively, member may send signed copy of the request letter providing the e-mail address, mobile number, self-attested PAN copy
     along with client master copy (in case of electronic folio)/copy of share certificate (in case of physical folio) via e-mail at the e-mail id
     einward.ris@kfintech.com for obtaining the Annual Report and Notice of e-AGM.

33   Instructions for e-voting and joining the e-AGM are as follows:




                                                                                        15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited               5
    Notice




    A.     Voting through electronic means:

           i.     In terms of the provisions of section 108 of the Act, read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,
                  2014 as amended (hereinafter called ‘the Rules’ for the purpose of this section of the Notice) and regulation 44 of the Listing
                  Regulations and in terms of SEBI vide circular dated 9 December 2020 in relation to e-voting facility provided by Listed Entities, the
                  members are provided with the remote e-voting facility to exercise votes on the items of business given in the Notice, through the
                  e-voting services provided by KFin or to vote at the e-AGM.

           ii.    The members, whose names appear in the Register of Members/list of Beneficial Owners as on Tuesday, 19 July 2022 (end of day),
                  being the cut-off date fixed for determining voting rights of members are entitled to participate in the remote e-voting process.
                  A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for information purpose only.

           iii.   Members can cast their vote online from 23 July 2022 (9.00 a.m.) till 25 July 2022 (5.00 p.m.). Voting beyond the said date shall not
                  be allowed and the remote e-voting facility shall be blocked.

           iv.    Alternatively, members holding securities in physical mode (excluding individual shareholders) may reach out on toll free number
                  1800 309 4001 for obtaining User ID and password or may write e-mail from the registered e-mail id to evoting@kfintech.com

           v.     The details of the process and manner for remote e-voting are explained herein below:

    I)     Login method for remote e-voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode

           Pursuant to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9 December 2020 on “e-voting facility provided by Listed
           Companies”, e-voting process has been enabled to all the individual demat account holders, by way of single login credential, through their
           demat accounts/websites of Depositories/DPs in order to increase the efficiency of the voting process. Individual demat account holders
           would be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the e-voting service provider (ESP) thereby facilitating not only
           seamless authentication but also ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process.

           Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail id with their DPs in order to access e-voting facility.

           Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:


           Type of shareholders                         Login method


           Individual shareholders holding              A. Users registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
           securities in demat mode with NSDL           1. Open web browser by typing the URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a personal
                                                           computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the
                                                           “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
                                                        2. A new screen will open. Enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication,
                                                           you will be able to see e-voting services. Click on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting
                                                           services and you will be able to see e-voting page.
                                                        3. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - KFintech
                                                           and you will be re-directed to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote
                                                           during the remote e-voting period.

                                                        B. Users not registered for IDeAS e-Services:
                                                           Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com Select “Register Online for
                                                           IDeAS” Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp and
                                                           proceed with completing the required fields i.e. follow steps given in points 1-3 above.

                                                        C. By visiting the e-voting website of NSDL:
                                                        1. Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the URL:
                                                           https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/either on a personal computer or on a mobile. Once the
                                                           home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the “Login” icon, available under the
                                                           “Shareholder/Member” section.
                                                        2. A new screen will open. Enter your User ID (i. e. your 16-digit demat account number
                                                           held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After
                                                           successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can
                                                           see e-voting page.
                                                        3. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - KFintech
                                                           and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during
                                                           the remote e-voting period.




6        Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                             Notice




      Individual Shareholders holding               A. Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest:
      securities in demat mode with CDSL            1. URL to login to Easi/Easiest: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login or
                                                       www.cdslindia.com and click on New System Myeasi
                                                    2. Shareholders can login through their User ID and Password. Option will be made available
                                                       to reach e-voting page without any further authentication.
                                                    3. After successful login on Easi/Easiest, the user will also be able to see the e-voting Menu.
                                                       The menu will have links of ESPs. Click on KFintech to cast your vote.

                                                    B. Users who have not opted for Easi/Easiest:
                                                       Option to register for Easi/Easiest is available at
                                                       https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration and proceed with
                                                       completing the required fields.

                                                    C. By visiting the e-voting website of CDSL:
                                                    1. The user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat account number and PAN
                                                       No. from a link in www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by
                                                       sending OTP on registered mobile and e-mail as recorded in the demat Account.
                                                    2. After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESPs i.e.
                                                       KFintech where the e-voting is in progress.

      Individual Shareholders (holding              1.   Shareholders can also login using the login credentials of their demat account through
      securities in demat mode) logging                  their Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility.
      through their depository participants              Once logged-in, you will be able to see e-voting option.
                                                    2.   Once you click on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site
                                                         after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
                                                    3.   Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider- KFintech
                                                         and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during
                                                         the remote e-voting period.


      Important Note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password option
      available at respective websites.

      Helpdesk for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode who need assistance for any technical issues related to login
      through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:

      Members facing any technical issue - NSDL                                Members facing any technical issue - CDSL


      Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL             Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL
      helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call on toll      helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com
      free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30                                or contact on 022- 23058738 or 022-23058542-43


II)   Login method for remote e-voting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 		
      mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode

      i.     Initial password is provided in the body of the e-mail.

      ii.    Launch internet browser and type the URL: https://evoting.kfintech.com in the address bar.

      iii.   Enter the login credentials i.e. User ID and Password mentioned in your e-mail. Your Folio No./DP ID Client ID will be your User ID.
             However, if you are already registered with KFin for e-voting, you can use your existing User ID and Password for casting your votes.

      iv.    After entering the details appropriately, click on LOGIN.

      v.     You will reach the password change menu wherein you are required to mandatorily change your password. The new password shall
             comprise minimum 8 characters with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special
             character (@,#,$,etc.). It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep
             your password confidential.

      vi.    You need to login again with the new credentials.

      vii.   On successful login, the system will prompt you to select the EVENT i.e. Bajaj Auto Ltd.




                                                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                7
    Notice




           viii.   On the voting page, the number of shares (which represents the number of votes) held by you as on the cut-off date will appear.
                   If you desire to cast all the votes assenting/dissenting to the resolution, enter all shares and click ‘FOR’/‘AGAINST’ as the case may
                   be or partially in ‘FOR’ and partially in ‘AGAINST’, but the total number in ‘FOR’ and/or ‘AGAINST’ taken together should not exceed
                   your total shareholding as on the cut-off date. You may also choose the option ‘ABSTAIN’, in which case, the shares held will not be
                   counted under either head.

           ix.     Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall choose the voting process separately for each folio/demat account.

           x.      Cast your votes by selecting an appropriate option and click on ‘SUBMIT’. A confirmation box will be displayed. Click ‘OK’ to confirm,
                   else ‘CANCEL’ to modify. Once you confirm, you will not be allowed to modify your vote subsequently. During the voting period,
                   you can login multiple times till you have confirmed that you have voted on the resolution.

           xi.     Corporate/institutional members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned image (PDF/JPG format) of
                   certified true copy of relevant board resolution/authority letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorised
                   signatory(ies) who is/are authorised to vote, to the Scrutinizer through e-mail at cssdlimaye@gmail.com and may also upload the same
                   in the e-voting module in their login. The scanned image of the above documents should be in the naming format ‘BAL_EVENT No.’

           xii.    In case of any queries/grievances, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and e-voting user manual
                   available at the ‘download’ section of https://evoting.kfintech.com or call KFin on 1800-309-4001(toll free).

    B.     Voting at e-AGM:

           i.      Only those members/shareholders, who will be present in the e-AGM through video conferencing facility and have not cast their vote
                   through remote e-voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so are eligible to vote through e-voting in the e-AGM.

           ii.     However, members who have voted through remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the e-AGM.

           iii.    Members attending the e-AGM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under section 103 of the Act.

           iv.     Voting at e-AGM will be available at the end of the e-AGM and shall be kept open for 15 mins. Members viewing the e-AGM, shall
                   click on the “e-voting” sign placed on the left-hand bottom corner of the video screen. User’s will be required to use the credentials,
                   to login on the eMeeting webpage, and click on the “Thumbs-up” icon against the unit to vote.

    C.     Instructions for members for attending the e-AGM:

           i.      Members will be able to attend the e-AGM through VC/OAVM or view the live webcast of AGM provided by KFin at
                   https://emeetings.kfintech.com by clicking on the tab “Video Conference” and by using their remote e-voting login credentials.
                   The link for e-AGM will be available in members login, where the EVENT and the name of the Company can be selected.

           ii.     Members are encouraged to join the meeting through devices (Laptops, Desktops, Mobile devices) with Google Chrome for
                   better experience.

           iii.    Further, members registered as speakers will be required to allow camera during e-AGM and hence are required to use internet
                   with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the meeting.

           iv.     Members may join the meeting using headphones for better sound clarity.

           v.      While all efforts would be made to make the VC/OAVM meeting smooth, participants connecting through mobile devices, tablets,
                   laptops etc. may at times experience audio/video loss due to fluctuation in their respective networks. Use of a stable Wi-Fi or LAN
                   connection can mitigate some of the technical glitches.

           vi.     Members, who would like to express their views or ask questions during the e-AGM will have to register themselves as a speaker
                   by visiting the URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/and clicking on the tab “Speaker Registration” during the period starting from
                   19 July 2022 (9.00 a.m.) upto 23 July 2022 (5.00 p.m.). Only those members who have registered themselves as a speaker will be
                   allowed to express their views/ask questions during the e-AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers
                   depending on the availability of time for the e-AGM. Only questions of the members holding shares as on the cut-off date will be
                   considered.

           vii.    A video guide assisting the members attending e-AGM either as a speaker or participant is available for quick reference at URL
                   https://emeetings.kfintech.com/under the “How it Works” tab placed on top of the page.

           viii.   Members who need technical assistance before or during the fifteenth e-AGM can contact KFin at emeetings@kfintech.com or
                   Helpline: 1800-309-4001.




8        Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                            Notice




D.    General Instructions:

     i.     The Board of Directors has appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572) as the
            Scrutinizer to the e-voting process and voting at the e-AGM in a fair and transparent manner.

     ii.    The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the e-AGM, first count the votes cast at the meeting, thereafter
            unblock the votes through e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses, not in the employment of the Company and make
            a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman of the Company, who shall
            countersign the same.

     iii.   The scrutinizer shall submit his report to the Chairman or in his absence Managing Director and CEO of the Company, who shall
            declare the result of the voting. The results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s report shall be placed on the Company’s website
            www.bajajauto.com and on the website of KFin https://evoting.kfintech.com and shall also be communicated to the stock exchanges.
            The resolutions shall be deemed to be passed at the e-AGM of the Company.




                                                                                        15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited              9
     Notice




                                                     ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE

     BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTORS SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING PURSUANT TO
     REGULATION 36(3) OF THE LISTING REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE ACT

     Item No. 3 of the Notice

     Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670)

     As regards re-appointment of Rakesh Sharma referred to in Item No. 3 of the Notice, the following disclosures are made for the information of
     the shareholders:

     Information about the appointee:

     Brief resume

     Rakesh Sharma (born on 22 November 1962) is Executive Director on the Board of Bajaj Auto Ltd. He is responsible for leading the business
     verticals of Motorcycles, Intracity Commercial Vehicles, International Business and Auto Finance.

     Prior to joining Bajaj Auto Ltd., he worked for over 20 years with the British ICI Group in multiple roles. He is a commerce (Honours) graduate
     from the Delhi University and an MBA from IIM, Ahmedabad.

     Directorships:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.     Chetak Technology Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.


     *Committee Chairmanship and Membership: Nil

     *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

     Shareholding in the Company: 4,164

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Operations and Engineering,
     Automobile Engineering and Project Management and such other areas.

     He was first appointed on the Board of the Company on 1 January 2019 and his last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2021-22 was
     H 10.29 crore. More details about his remuneration are available in the Annual Report.

     Rakesh Sharma is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

     Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
     Governance Report.

     He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

     None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Rakesh Sharma, is concerned or interested, financially or
     otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

     The Board commends item no. 3 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

     Item No. 4 of the Notice

     Madhur Bajaj (DIN 00014593)

     As regards re-appointment of Madhur Bajaj referred to in Item No. 4 of the Notice, the following disclosures are made for the information of the
     shareholders:

     Information about the appointee:

     Brief resume

     Madhur Bajaj (born on 19 August 1952) graduated in commerce from Sydenham College, Bombay, in 1973, and did his MBA from the
     International Institute of Management Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1979.

10        Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                            Notice




Having more than 29 years of experience in Auto, Consumer Durables and Financial Services, Madhur Bajaj is the recipient of the ‘Vikas Rattan
Award’ from the International Friendship Society of India, for enhancing human life and outstanding achievements.

He previously occupied the position of President of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture, President for Industries
Association of Pune and President of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.

He is also serving as the National Council Member of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).

Directorships:

1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd. – Vice Chairman
2.   Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.
3.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
4.   Bajaj Finance Ltd.
5.   Bajaj Electricals Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanship and Membership: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: 10,02,552

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Automobile Engineering and Project
Management, Infrastructure and Real Estate, CSR, Sustainability and NGO matters.

He has been associated as Vice Chairman of the Company since 2017 and his last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2021-22
was H 17.50 lakh. More details about his remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fees and
commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

Madhur Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj, Shekhar Bajaj and Madhur Bajaj,
are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

The Board commends item no. 4 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

Statement under section 102 of the Act and regulation 36 (3) of the Listing Regulations

Item no. 6 of the Notice

Based on the recommendations of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 18 May 2017,
appointed Dr. Naushad Darius Forbes (DIN 00630825) as an independent director of the Company for the first term of consecutive period of five
years from 18 May 2017 up to 17 May 2022. His appointment was also approved by the shareholders at the tenth annual general meeting of the
Company held on 20 July 2017.

Since the first term as an independent director would be ending on 17 May 2022, the Board at its meeting held on 27 April 2022, based on
the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and considering his skills, experience and knowledge and the report of
performance evaluation for the financial year 2021-22, recommended for the approval of the members, the re-appointment of Dr. Naushad
Darius Forbes for a second term of five consecutive years with effect from 18 May 2022 up to 17 May 2027 in terms of section 149 read with
Schedule IV to the Act and Listing Regulations or any amendment thereto or modification thereof.

In accordance with section 149(10) and (11) of the Act, an independent director shall hold office for a term up to five consecutive years on
the Board of a Company, but shall be eligible for re-appointment on passing of a special resolution by the Company and disclosure of such
appointment in the Board’s report. Further, with effect from 1 January 2022, as per regulation 25(2A) of the Listing Regulations, appointment or
the re-appointment of an independent director shall be subject to approval of shareholders by way of a special resolution. Dr. Forbes fulfils the
requirement of an independent director as laid down under section 149(6) of the Act and regulation 16 and 25 of the Listing Regulations.

In respect of the said appointment, a notice in writing in the prescribed manner as required by section 160 of the Act, as amended and rules
made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding his candidature for the office of the director.

Dr. Forbes has given his consent for the said re-appointment and has also submitted the declaration of independence, as required pursuant to
section 149(7) of the Act, stating that he meets the criteria of independence as provided in section 149(6) and regulation 16 and 25 of the Listing
Regulations and is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

                                                                                       15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                11
     Notice




     The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors shall be available for inspection through electronic mode and the same shall
     also be available at the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

     The Board is of the opinion that Dr. Forbes possesses the requisite skills, experience and knowledge relevant to the Company’s business and it
     would be of immense benefit to the Company to continue to have his association with the Company as an independent director of the Company.

     According to section 152 of the Act, read with Schedule IV to the Act, in the opinion of the Board, the proposed re-appointment fulfils the
     conditions specified in the Act and the Rules made thereunder as also the applicable provisions of Listing Regulations and is independent of the
     Management.

     Information about the appointee:

     Brief resume

     Dr. Naushad Darius Forbes (born on 13 May 1960), is the Co - Chairman of Forbes Marshall, India’s leading Steam Engineering and Control
     Instrumentation firm. He chairs the Steam Engineering Companies within that group.

     Dr. Forbes was an occasional Lecturer and Consulting Professor at Stanford University from 1987 to 2004 where he developed courses on
     Technology in Newly Industrializing Countries. He received his Bachelors, Masters and PhD Degrees from Stanford University.

     He is on the Board of several educational institutions and public companies. He is the Chairman of Centre for Technology, Innovation and
     Economic Research in Pune. He has been an active member of CII and has at various times chaired the National Committees on Higher
     Education, Innovation, Technology and International Business. He was President of CII for 2016-17.

     Major Directorships:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.     Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     4.     Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.
     5.     Zodiac Clothing Company Ltd.

     *Committee Chairmanship:

     Bajaj Finserv Ltd.

     *Committee Membership:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.     Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     4.     Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.

     * Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

     Shareholding in the Company: 3,500

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Operations and Engineering,
     Human Resources and Industrial Relations, Finance and Taxation, Corporate Governance and Ethics, Economics and Statistics, CSR and
     such other areas.

     He was first appointed on the Board of the Company on 18 May 2017 and his last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2021-22
     was H 45.50 lakh. More details about his remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fees and
     commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

     Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
     Governance Report.

     He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

     None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Dr. Naushad Darius Forbes is concerned or interested financially or
     otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item no. 6 of the Notice.

     The Board commends the special resolution set out in item no. 6 for approval by shareholders.




12        Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                              Notice




Item no. 7 of the Notice

Based on the recommendations of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 14 September 2017,
appointed Anami N. Roy (DIN 01361110) as an independent director of the Company for the first term of consecutive period of five years from
14 September 2017 up to 13 September 2022. His appointment was also approved by the shareholders at eleventh annual general meeting of
the Company held on 20 July 2018.

Since the first term as an independent director would be ending on 13 September 2022, the Board at its meeting held on 27 April 2022, based
on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and considering his skills, experience and knowledge and the report
of performance evaluation for the financial year 2021-22, recommended for the approval of the members, the re-appointment of Anami N. Roy
for a second term of five consecutive years with effect from 14 September 2022 up to 13 September 2027 in terms of section 149 read with
Schedule IV to the Act and Listing Regulations or any amendment thereto or modification thereof.

In accordance with section 149(10) and (11) of the Act, an independent director shall hold office for a term up to five consecutive years on
the Board of a Company, but shall be eligible for re-appointment on passing of a special resolution by the Company and disclosure of such
appointment in the Board’s report. Further, with effect from 1 January 2022, as per regulation 25(2A) of the Listing Regulations, appointment or
the re-appointment of an independent director shall be subject to approval of shareholders by way of a special resolution. Anami N. Roy fulfils
the requirement of an independent director as laid down under section 149(6) of the Act and regulation 16 and 25 of the Listing Regulations.

In respect of the said appointment, a notice in writing in the prescribed manner as required by section 160 of the Act, as amended and rules
made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding his candidature for the office of the director.

Anami N. Roy has given his consent for the said re-appointment and has also submitted the declaration of independence, as required pursuant
to section 149(7) of the Act, stating that he meets the criteria of independence as provided in section 149(6) and regulation 16 and 25 of the
Listing Regulations and is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors shall be available for inspection through electronic mode and the same shall
also be available at the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

The Board is of the opinion that Anami N. Roy possesses the requisite skills, experience and knowledge relevant to the Company’s
business and it would be of immense benefit to the Company to continue to have his association with the Company as an independent
director of the Company.

According to section 152 of the Act, read with Schedule IV to the Act, in the opinion of the Board, the proposed re-appointment fulfils the
conditions specified in the Act and the rules made thereunder as also the applicable provisions of Listing Regulations and is independent
of the Management.

Pursuant to Regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, with effect from 1 April 2019, no listed entity shall appoint a person or continue the
directorship of any person as a non-executive director who has attained the age of 75 years, unless special resolution is passed to that effect.
Anami N. Roy is reaching the age of 75 years on 15 May 2025.

However, considering the significant benefits reaped by the Company from his experience, expertise and mature advice to the business of the
Company during his tenure as an independent director, the Board recommends continuation of appointment of Anami N. Roy as an independent
director of the Company beyond 15 May 2025 and up to 13 September 2027.

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Anami N. Roy (born on 15 May 1950) is a well-known former civil servant. He was head of operations of the elite Special Protection Group while
in Govt. of India, supervising security of Prime Minster and former PMs during the tenure of four PMs during which he had the opportunity to
work and interact with elite forces of all States in India and many countries of the world.

During his nearly four decades of dedicated tenure in the Indian Police Service, Shri Roy held variety of challenging assignments both in
Maharashtra and Govt. of India including Police Commissioner of Mumbai and Director General of Police, Maharashtra State. He launched
multiple innovative initiatives and schemes for time-bound and simplified delivery for people’s expectations from the Police towards making
Police more accessible to people. Passionate about bringing in technology in multiple areas of policing, his Mumbai Police Infoline, Citizen
Facilitation Centres, Elderline are some of those which became very popular and useful and made him known as “People’s Commissioner”.

Post retirement, he is engaged in the social/non-profit sector; and runs a not-for-profit company, Vandana Foundation for supporting people at
the bottom of the pyramid with livelihood.

He is on the Board of many prominent companies. He is also involved in many other companies in an Advisory capacity. He brings with him a
wide and rich experience of public service and functioning of governments at the state and central level.




                                                                                       15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                 13
     Notice




     Major Directorships:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.     Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     4.     Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.
     5.     Finolex Industries Ltd.
     6.     Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd.

     *Committee Chairmanship:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.     Finolex Industries Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     4.     Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.

     *Committee Membership:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.     Finolex Industries Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Finance Ltd.
     4.     Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
     5.     Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Corporation Ltd.
     6.     Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Corporation Ltd.

     * Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

     Shareholding in the Company: Nil

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Human Resources and Industrial Relations, Law, Banking,
     Investment and Treasury Management, Corporate Governance and Ethics, Regulatory, Government and Security matters, CSR, Sustainability
     and NGO matters and such other areas.

     He was first appointed on the Board of the Company on 14 September 2017 and his last drawn remuneration during the financial year
     2021-22 was H 42 lakh. More details about his remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fees
     and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

     Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
     Governance Report.

     He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

     None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Anami N. Roy is concerned or interested financially or otherwise,
     except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item no. 7 of the Notice.

     The Board commends the special resolution set out in item no. 7 for approval by shareholders.




     By order of the Board of Directors
     For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




     Dr. J Sridhar
     Company Secretary
     Pune: 14 June 2022




14        Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22




“Do whatever you think
best, but be the best at
whatever you do”

- Rahul Bajaj
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22




CONTENTS
Board of                  Management   Chairman’s
Directors                  Team         Letter
Page 2                     Page 4       Page 9




Management                 Corporate    General
Discussion and             Governance   Shareholder
Analysis                                Information
Page 11                    Page 35      Page 57




Directors’                 Standalone   Consolidated
Report                     Financial    Financial
(including Annual Report   Statements   Statements
on CSR activities)

Page 71                    Page 105     Page 189
Board of Directors                        Duplicate Share Certificate          Company Secretary
                                          Issuance Committee
Niraj Bajaj, Chairman                                                          Dr. J Sridhar
Madhur Bajaj, Vice Chairman               Rajiv Bajaj, Chairman
Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director & CEO      Pradeep Shrivastava                  Auditors
Sanjiv Bajaj                              Rakesh Sharma
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                  S R B C & CO LLP
D J Balaji Rao                            Management                           Chartered Accountants
Dr. Gita Piramal (upto 30 April 2022)
Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director   Rajiv Bajaj                          Secretarial Auditor
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        Managing Director & CEO
Anami N. Roy                                                                   Shyamprasad D. Limaye
Rakesh Sharma, Executive Director         Pradeep Shrivastava                  Practising Company Secretary
Ms. Lila Poonawalla                       Executive Director
Pradip Shah                                                                    Bankers
Abhinav Bindra                            Rakesh Sharma
                                          Executive Director                   State Bank of India
Audit Committee                                                                Citibank N A
                                          Abraham Joseph                       Standard Chartered Bank
Anami N. Roy, Chairman                    Chief Technology Officer             ICICI Bank
D J Balaji Rao                                                                 HDFC Bank
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        S Ravikumar                          HSBC Bank
Dr. Gita Piramal (upto 30 April 2022)     Chief Business Development Officer   Axis Bank

Stakeholders’ Relationship                Dinesh Thapar                        Registered under the
Committee                                 Chief Financial Officer              Companies Act, 1956

D J Balaji Rao, Chairman                  Ravi Kyran Ramasamy                  Registered Office
Dr. Gita Piramal (upto 30 April 2022)     Chief Human Resources Officer
Niraj Bajaj                                                                    Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                          Sarang Kanade                        Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
Nomination & Remuneration                 President (Motorcycle Business)
Committee                                                                      CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076
                                          Samardeep Subandh
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman                  President (Intra-City Business)      Works
Niraj Bajaj
Dr. Gita Piramal (upto 30 April 2022)     Kevin D’sa                           l   Mumbai-Pune Road,
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        President (Retail Finance)               Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

Corporate Social Responsibility           K S Grihapathy                       l   Bajaj Nagar,
Committee                                 President (Export Business)              Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136.

Rajiv Bajaj, Chairman                     Eric Vas                             l   Chakan Industrial Area,
Pradeep Shrivastava                       President (Urbanite Business)            Chakan, Pune 410 501.
Dr. Naushad Forbes
                                          Sumeet Narang                        l   Plot No.2, Sector 10,
Risk Management Committee                 President (Probiking Business)           IIE Pantnagar,
                                                                                   Udhamsinghnagar,
Anami N. Roy, Chairman                    C P Tripathi                             Uttarakhand 263 531
D J Balaji Rao                            Advisor (CSR)
Rakesh Sharma
Niraj R. Bajaj
Chairman
MANAGEMENT
TEAM




  Rajiv Bajaj     Pradeep Shrivastava




  Rakesh Sharma   Abraham Joseph




  S Ravikumar     Dinesh Thapar
Ravi Kyran Ramasamy   Sarang Kanade




Samardeep Subandh     Kevin D’sa




K S Grihapathy        Eric Vas




Sumeet Narang         C P Tripathi
Entrepreneur
Visionary
Patriot
Rahul Bajaj
1938 - 2022
CHAIRMAN’S
LETTER
Dear Shareholder,

As the youngest of five cousins — we always called each other ‘brothers’ — I was the perennial ‘student’
of Rahul-bhaiya. In the process, he taught me everything that I know today. The skill and focus with
which he dealt with numbers; his ability to see things from 40,000 feet and instantaneously descend to an
ant’s-eye view of things; his unflinching commitment to ethics and integrity; his innate understanding of
various businesses; his courage and fearlessness and the conviction to call a spade a spade; his innate
understanding of when to be a tough negotiator and when to cut slack, all done with a smile, humour
and logic; his quest for details; and his capacity to care, show concern, and have huge amounts of fun.

Even today, I can imagine him calling me at 11.30 at night to check whether I had finished doing
something that I was supposed to do. Or to admonish me for wasting precious paper in expressing all
these things about him.

I will miss him forever.

Had Rahul-bhaiya been around, he would have been happy with the results of your Company. I can
imagine him saying, “What good fortune to have such results in the very first year of your
Chairmanship”. And my replying, “It is only with your blessings, Sir”. The numbers are indeed excellent,
and demonstrate the ability of your Company’s management to swiftly overcome the enormous crisis
brought about by Covid and return to its winning ways. Here are the key results:

l   Net sales for FY2022 was H 32,136 crore versus H 27,133 crore for FY2021. With a growth of 18.4%,
    this is your Company’s highest ever annual net sales.
l   Operating earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) was H 5,389 crore
    for FY2022 — a growth of 6.4% over the previous year, and also the highest ever.
l   Operating EBITDA margin was 16.3% of net sales and other operating income, versus 18.3% in the
    previous year. That was on account of serious increases in input costs, and your Company’s inability
    to further push its high value-high margin sports and super-sports bikes no thanks to a crippling
    global shortage of semiconductors.
l   Operating profit grew by 6.5% to H 5,111 crore – which is also the highest ever. The operating profit
    margin was 15.4% of net sales and other operating income.
l   Profit before tax and exceptional item increased by 4.2% to H 6,190 crore — which is the third
    highest in your Company’s history.
l   Profit before tax (PBT) grew by 9.5% to H 6,505 crore. This, too, was Bajaj Auto’s third highest ever.




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 < Bajaj Auto Limited    9
Chairman’s Letter




          l   Profit after tax (PAT) recorded a growth of 10.2% to H 5,019 crore. This was your Company’s second
              highest PAT.
          l   Surplus cash and cash equivalent as on 31 March 2022 increased by 7.9% to H 19,090 crore after
              a dividend pay-out of H 4,051 crore in FY2022.

          One more kudo is in order. That has to do with your Company’s outstanding export performance. This is
          not new, but FY2022 was special. First, we crossed the export milestone of 2.5 million vehicles. Second,
          motorcycle exports touched new highs – at almost 2.2 million units, showing a growth of 22% over
          FY2021. Third, in 10 of the 12 months, your Company exported over 200,000 units. And fourth, exports
          accounted for 52.7% of net sales — something that we have never witnessed before. Bajaj Auto is truly
          The World’s Favourite Indian.

          I believe that your Company’s Managing Director, Shri Rajiv Bajaj, his entire team and each and every
          employee deserve congratulations for such results.

          Having rightly applauded the management, I should also share with you a short term concern. There is
          no doubt in my mind — nor should it be in yours — that Bajaj Auto has a complete suite of profitable
          two-and three-wheelers that can significantly increase the domestic and international market shares
          and earn higher sales, revenues and profits. However, in all my years as a fiduciary of your Company,
          I have never seen it face such a global supply constraint that it has in terms of the sheer scarcity of
          semiconductors. No modern automobile can exist without a slew of semiconductor chips. Motorcycles
          and top-of-the-line electric vehicles like the Chetak are no exceptions. It is difficult to predict when this
          supply scarcity will end. But till then, this will constrain your Company’s production volumes, as it will
          for all other automobile manufacturers.

          That said, I have no doubt whatsoever about the medium-and long-term view of your Company. It is
          a great enterprise in excellent hands — and forever capable of delighting customers, employees and
          shareholders alike. Which is why it is Hamara Bajaj!

          With my best wishes,

          Yours sincerely,




          Niraj Bajaj
          Chairman
          27 April 2022




 10    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
2021-22 (FY2022) continued to be dominated by Covid. In India, the second wave proved
far more deadly than the first. After a late start, the roll-out of vaccines began in earnest.
The nation-wide vaccination programme has been a great success. In fact, the
vaccination drive played no mean a role in minimising the effects of the third wave. The
economy, too, was not locked down as in the first wave. Consequently, the negative
impact on GDP was less than anticipated.

However, the economy has not recovered as much as expected.
The second advance estimates of national income for FY2022 released by the Central
Statistics Office (CSO) on 28 February 2022 have pegged GDP growth at 8.9%. If that were
to happen it would be on the back of a contraction of 6.6% in FY2021.




   Highest ever figures in the history of Bajaj Auto



   L 32,136                L 33,145                L 5,389                 L 5,111
     crore                   crore                  crore                   crore




    18.4%                   19.5%                    6.4%                    6.5%




   Net Sales               Operating                EBITDA                Operating
                            Income                                          Profit




                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   11
Bajaj Auto’s Financial
Performance for FY2022
l   Net sales increased by       l   Operating earnings          l   The relatively lower
    18.4% to K 32,136 crore.         before interest, tax,           growth of EBITDA
    It is the highest ever in        depreciation and                vis-à-vis total operating
    the history of Bajaj Auto.       amortisation (EBITDA)           income is on account of
                                     grew by 6.4% to                 substantial increases
l   Total operating income           K 5,389 crore. This, too,       in cost of materials
    (net sales plus other            is the highest ever for         consumed — all of which
    operating income)                Bajaj Auto.                     could not be passed on
    increased by 19.5% to                                            through higher prices.
    K 33,145 crore. This is
    also the highest ever for
    the Company.
l   The operating EBITDA      l   Operating profit          l   Profit after tax (PAT) was
    margin is 16.3% of            increased by 6.5% to          higher by 10.2% to
    total operating income,       K 5,111 crore, highest        K 5,019 crore.
    versus 18.3% in the           ever for Bajaj Auto.
    previous year — again                                   l   Surplus cash and
    lower by 2 percentage     l   Profit before tax (PBT)       cash equivalent as on
    points on account             increased by 9.5% to          31 March 2022
    of disproportionate           K 6,505 crore.                increased by 7.9% to
    increase in cost of raw                                     K 19,090 crore.
    materials.
Management Discussion and Analysis




         Charts A and B plot the Company’s financial performance


                                                    Chart A: EBITDA and EBITDA%
                                                    Chart A: EBITDA and EBITDA%

                                                                            EBITDA                      EBITDA%
                                                                            EBITDA                      EBITDA%


                                                      6000                                                                                  22.2                                                  24
                                                                                                                                                                                                  24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EBITDA
                                                      6000                                                                                  22.2        21.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EBITDA(%
                                                                                                                      21.2                              21.7                                      22
                                                      5500        21.7                 20.4 20.2                      21.2                                         20.2                           22
                                                      5500        21.7                 20.4 20.2                                                                   20.2
                                                      5000                                                                         20.1                                                           20
                                                      5000                                                    19.6                 20.1                                            17.6 18.3      20
                                                                                                              19.6                                                            17.5 17.6 18.3      18
                                                      4500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (%ofoftotal
                                                                                                                                                                              17.5
                                         Crore)




                                                      4500                                                                                                                                        18
                          EBITDA(H(HInInCrore)




                                                                                                                                                                                             16.3 16
                                                      4000                                                                                                                                   16.3 16
                                                      4000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    totaloperating
                                                      3500             13.6                                                                                                                       14
                                                      3500             13.6                                                                                                                       14
                                                      3000                                                                                                                                        12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          operatingincome)
                                                      3000                                                                                                                                        12
                         EBITDA




                                                      2500                                                                                                                                        10
                                                      2500                                                                                                                                        10
                                                      2000                                                                                                                                        8
                                                      2000                                                                                                                                        8
                                                      1500                                                                                                                                        6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     income)
                                                      1500                                                                                                                                        6
                                                      1000                                                                                                                                        4
                                                      1000                                                                                                                                        4
                                                       500                                                                                                                                        2
                                                       500                                                                                                                                        2
                                                         0                                                                                                                                        0
                                                         0                                                                                                                                        0
                                                              FY2009

                                                                           FY2010

                                                                                     FY2011

                                                                                               FY2012

                                                                                                         FY2013

                                                                                                                   FY2014

                                                                                                                              FY2015

                                                                                                                                         FY2016

                                                                                                                                                    FY2017

                                                                                                                                                                FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                          FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                    FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                              FY2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                        FY2022
                                                             FY2009

                                                                          FY2010

                                                                                    FY2011

                                                                                              FY2012

                                                                                                        FY2013

                                                                                                                  FY2014

                                                                                                                             FY2015

                                                                                                                                        FY2016

                                                                                                                                                   FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                         FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                   FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                             FY2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                       FY2022
                                                    Chart B: Total Operating Income, Operating Profit and PAT
                                                    Chart B: Total Operating Income, Operating Profit and PAT

                                                                            Total Operating Income                                     Operating Profit                              PAT
                                                                            Total Operating Income                                     Operating Profit                              PAT
                                                     36000                                                                                                                             5,100            5,019 5500
                                                     36000                                                                                                                             5,100            5,019 5500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5000                     Operating
                                           Crore)




                                                     32000                                                                                                                                                       5000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OperatingProfit
                            Income(H(HInInCrore)




                                                     32000                                                                                                                    4,675
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4500
                                                                                                                                                             4,068            4,675              4,555
                                                     28000                                                                             3,930                                                     4,555           4500
                                                                                                                                                             4,068
                                                     28000                                                                             3,930                                                                     4000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4000
                                                     24000                                                        3,243                             3,828                                                        3500
                                                     24000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Profitand




                                                                              3,340             3,004             3,243                             3,828                                                        3500
                 OperatingIncome




                                                                              3,340             3,004
                                                     20000                                                  3,044                                                                                                3000
                                                     20000                                                  3,044                 2,814                                                                          3000
                                                                                                                                  2,814
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            andPAT




                                                     16000                                                                                                                                                       2500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2500
           TotalOperating




                                                     16000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAT(H(HInInCrore)




                                                     12000                    1,704                                                                                                                              2000
                                                     12000                    1,704                                                                                                                              1500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1500
                                                      8000
                                                      8000                                                                                                                                                       1000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1000
          Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Crore)




                                                                   656
                                                      4000         656                                                                                                                                           500
                                                      4000                                                                                                                                                       500
                                                         0                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                         0                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                              FY2009

                                                                           FY2010

                                                                                     FY2011

                                                                                               FY2012

                                                                                                         FY2013

                                                                                                                   FY2014

                                                                                                                              FY2015

                                                                                                                                         FY2016

                                                                                                                                                    FY2017

                                                                                                                                                                FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                          FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                    FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                              FY2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                        FY2022
                                                             FY2009

                                                                          FY2010

                                                                                    FY2011

                                                                                              FY2012

                                                                                                        FY2013

                                                                                                                  FY2014

                                                                                                                             FY2015

                                                                                                                                        FY2016

                                                                                                                                                   FY2017

                                                                                                                                                               FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                         FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                                   FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                             FY2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                       FY2022




         Let us now discuss the Company’s performance across business units




 14   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                            Management Discussion and Analysis




Motorcycles (Domestic)
As far as domestic sales of motorcycles are concerned, after two years of impressive growth in FY2018
and FY2019, the market crashed. Between FY2019 and FY2022, domestic motorcycle sales for the
industry as a whole has fallen by almost 34% in terms of volume.

In this environment, Bajaj Auto has been able to arrest its decline in sales and raise market share from
18.0% in FY2021 to 18.2% in FY2022 (see Table 1).


Table 1: Domestic Sale of Motorcycles (in numbers)
                           Domestic                              BAL’s           BAL's
Year ended              sales for the        Domestic        domestic         domestic     BAL's market
31 March              industry (nos.)    sales growth      sales (nos.)         growth            share


2018                      12,613,241            13.7%        1,974,577           (1.3%)            15.7%
2019                      13,599,678             7.8%        2,541,320            28.7%            18.7%
2020                      11,214,640          (17.5%)        2,078,136          (18.2%)            18.5%
2021                      10,019,836          (10.7%)        1,807,980          (13.0%)            18.0%
2022                       8,984,186          (10.3%)        1,632,897           (9.7%)            18.2%

Below is the segment-wise analysis.

M Segment The milage or M segment accounts for by far the highest unit-wise sale of motorcycles in
India. Bajaj Auto is represented here by the CT, Platina and the Pulsar 125.

l    In FY2022, this segment de-grew by 8%.
l    However, Bajaj Auto’s sales in the segment increased by 2.8% to an average of 101,606 units per
     month in FY2022.
l    Consequently, our market share has increased from 15.2% in FY2021 to 17.0% in FY2022.
l    Our stellar performer in this segment has been the Pulsar 125. Successfully introduced in FY2021,
     this sleek model has created a big buzz. On an average, we sold over 37,500 Pulsar 125 per month
     in FY2022.




    CT                                  Platina                           Pulsar 125




                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   15
Management Discussion and Analysis




         S Segment The sports or S segment is represented by
         the Company with the high end Pulsar family, the Avenger
         and the Dominar.

         l    The industry as a whole saw a sharp drop in demand with
                                                                                  2nd
              domestic sales falling by 19% in FY2022, to an average of
              150,885 units per month.                                          Largest
         l    Bajaj Auto’s sales fell as well. From an average                  Market share
              monthly sale of 51,820 units in FY2021, it dropped by 33% to      in S Segment
              34,469 units per month. Consequently, the Company’s market
              share in the segment reduced from 28% in FY2021 to 23% in
              FY2022. Even so, Bajaj Auto has the second largest market
              share in this category.




             Pulsar RS200                      Pulsar NS200                  Pulsar F250




             Pulsar N250                       Pulsar 150                    Avenger




             Dominar




 16   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                              Management Discussion and Analysis




Three-Wheelers (Domestic)
Bajaj Auto is the world’s largest manufacturer and seller of three-wheelers. Compared to the previous
year, FY2022 was a good year for Bajaj Auto. Our performance in this segment is in Table 2.


Table 2: Sale of Three-Wheelers (in numbers)

Particulars                                                        FY2022           FY2021           FY2020



Passenger carriers
Industry sales                                                     183,607          134,087        525,015
BAL’s sales                                                        130,172           81,618        334,714
BAL’s market share                                                    70.9%          60.9%             63.8%
Goods carriers
Industry sales                                                      77,388           82,110        111,554
BAL’s sales                                                         30,427           27,686            30,103
BAL’s market share                                                    39.3%          33.7%             27.0%
Total three-wheelers
Industry sales                                                     260,995          216,197        636,569
BAL’s sales                                                        160,599          109,304        364,817
BAL’s market share                                                    61.5%          50.6%             57.3%

l     For the industry, domestic sale of three-wheelers crashed by 66% to 216,197 units in FY2021.
      It has since increased by 21% to 260,995 units in FY2022.
l     Bajaj Auto’s domestic sale for FY2022 has seen a 47% increase to 160,599 units. Consequently,
      Bajaj Auto’s domestic market share of three-wheelers (passenger and goods) increased by
      10.9 percentage points to 61.5% in FY2022.
l     This superior performance was seen across all segments – passenger and cargo.

Our three-wheelers are CNG compatible. Given the growing importance of CNG as a fuel, going forward,
we expect to outperform the industry.


    Market share                                                                               Sales

    Passenger Three-Wheelers                      Total Three-Wheelers                        160,599
                                                                                               units
    61%                      10%              51%                      10%


                                                                                               47%




                                   29%                                        39%



               BAL in 2021                              BAL in 2021                          Total
               Increase in 2022                         Increase in 2022                three-wheeler
                                                                                            sales
               Other                                    Other




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited       17
Management Discussion and Analysis




         International Business
         It is our product quality, size and reach of our international business that makes Bajaj Auto The World’s
         Favourite Indian. Here are some of the stellar achievements on the export front.

         In FY2022
         l   We crossed 2.5 million vehicle milestone. This is the first ever in the history of Bajaj Auto.
         l   Motorcycle exports touched new highs – at almost 2.2 million units, showing a growth of 22% over
             FY2021.
         l   In 10 of the 12 months, BAL exported more than 200,000 units every month.
         l   All regions have shown strong growth in FY2022.




                 Motorcycle                              Sports
                  exports                              motorcycle                               Dominar
                                                        portfolio
                   grew by                                                                      grew by
                                                         grew by

                   22%                                   24%                                    69%


                       200,000 + Units exported per month in 10 of the 12 months

         Table 3 gives the export data.
         Table 3: Export Volume & Value, for Bajaj Auto

         Particulars                                                        FY2022         FY2021          Growth



         Units
         Motorcycles                                                       2,195,772      1,796,518         22.2%
         Commercial Vehicles                                                310,854        257,729          20.6%
         Total numbers                                                    2,506,626      2,054,247          22.0%
         Exports in K (crore)                                                16,934         12,687          33.5%
         Exports in USD (million)                                             2,172          1,651          31.6%


         Regarding motorcycles:

         l   Our Sports motorcycle portfolio grew at 24% versus the previous year. Our Dominar brands — both
             250cc and 400cc — are now exported to 26 countries; and these grew at 69% in FY2022 over and
             above 91% growth in FY2021.
         l   We recorded highest ever volumes in many key markets, such as Mexico, Guatemala, Nicaragua,
             Honduras, Bangladesh, Nepal and Iraq.
         l   We continued our dominance in Africa, where we exported over 1.2 million motorcycles — which
             exceeded 1 million units for the third year in a row. We had our highest ever volumes in all our key
             markets: Nigeria, Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo.




 18   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                        Management Discussion and Analysis




    Highest ever volumes in many key markets

                                                                                                                     Net Sales
    Mexico
    Guatemala
                                                                                 53%
    Nicaragua
    Honduras
    Bangladesh
    Nepal
    Iraq
    Nigeria
    Uganda
                                                                                                                                                                            47%
    Democratic Republic of Congo



                                                                                                            Exports                     Domestic

As far as commercial vehicles were concerned:

l          The business grew at 21% versus FY2021, in spite of the fear of Covid.
l          Focus on new markets like Iraq and new segments like cargo paid rich dividends. Iraq grew by 65%
           in FY2022 and crossed 50,000 units, while cargo volumes grew 86%.
l          All regions had positive growth. Volumes exported to the ASEAN markets more than doubled as
           Covid restrictions started easing out and demand for public transport began to increase.

Chart C plots our export performance over the years, both in value and as a percentage of the
Company’s total net sales.

As Chart C shows, in FY2017, exports as a percentage of Bajaj Auto’s net sales stood at 36.9%. Since
then it has been rising every year. In FY2022, it crossed 50% to post 52.7% of net sales. No auto
company in India is close to this ratio.


                                Chart C: Bajaj Auto’s Export Performance                                              Exports                     As a % of Net Sales


                                                                                                                                                              52.7
                            18000                                                                                                                                     55.0

                            16000                                                          46.2                                                                       49.5
                                                                                                     44.1
                                                                                                                               40.1                  46.8             44.0
                                                                                                                                                                             As a % of Net Sales




                            14000                                                                                      39.3
     Exports (H In Crore)




                                                                                  41.6                                                   42.0
                                                                34.2                                                                                                  38.5
                            12000
                                     31.3                                                                    36.9
                                               28.2                       34.4                                                                                        33.0
                            10000
                                                                                                                                                                      27.5
                                                        28.0
                             8000
                                                                                                                                                                      22.0
                             6000
                                                                                                                                                                      16.5
                             4000
                                                                                                                                                                      11.0
                             2000                                                                                                                                     5.5

                                0                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                    FY2009

                                             FY2010

                                                      FY2011

                                                               FY2012

                                                                        FY2013

                                                                                 FY2014

                                                                                          FY2015

                                                                                                   FY2016

                                                                                                            FY2017

                                                                                                                      FY2018

                                                                                                                               FY2019

                                                                                                                                         FY2020

                                                                                                                                                    FY2021

                                                                                                                                                             FY2022




                                                                                                       15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                                             19
Management Discussion and Analysis




         Urbanite (Chetak EV)
         Last year, we re-introduced this legendary brand as a best-in-class electric scooter. With a streamlined
         classic design and perfect detailing, it encompasses the best of beauty and aesthetics, and represents
         the future of mobility.

         With a horseshoe shaped LED headlight, daytime running lamps, feather touch activated electronic
         switches and sequential scrolling rear LED blinkers, and a digital console that displays key vehicle
         information, the Chetak is a thing of beauty.

         The Chetak offers a fully-connected riding experience. It is embedded with mobility solutions like data
         communication, security and user authentication. And the Chetak mobile app gives riders a
         comprehensive overview of all aspects of the vehicle and its ride history.

         The excitement to own a Chetak was across-the-board. When bookings were first rolled out in early
         2020, it had to be stopped on account of Covid. When we re-started online bookings on 13 April 2021,
         we had to stop 48 hours later, owing to overwhelming demand. For FY2022, sold 8,187 units.

         Initially, the Chetak was sold from two locations: Pune and Bengaluru. Seeing the enthusiastic demand
         for this iconic model, the Company has increased the touchpoints to 20 locations in FY2022. This is
         expected to grow to 75 in FY2023.


         Probiking (KTM)
         After several years of excellent performance, KTM sales in India dropped in FY2022. This was partly on
         account of Covid-related demand uncertainties; but much more so due to lack of supply of essential
         semiconductors. Chart D plots the sales of KTMs in India over the last 10 years.




                                Chart D: KTM Sales in India (nos)                                                    Sales in India


                            70000                                                                          64,058    63,187

                            60000
                                                                                                 50,705                         50,948
                            50000                                                      46,321
            Annual Volume




                            40000                                            34,970
                                                                   30,362
                            30000
                                                         22,627

                            20000
                                              11,050
                            10000   7,399


                                0
                                     FY2013


                                                FY2014


                                                          FY2015


                                                                    FY2016


                                                                              FY2017


                                                                                        FY2018


                                                                                                  FY2019


                                                                                                            FY2020


                                                                                                                       FY2021


                                                                                                                                 FY2022




         The probiking business now comprises two brands — KTM and Husqvarna. There are nine models of
         KTMs, ranging from the Duke 125 to the Duke 390, the RC’s and the Adventures. And there are two
         variants of the Husqvarna: the Svartpilen (Black) 250 and the Vitpilen (White) 250. The KTM Duke 200
         was re-launched in its second generation form; and the Duke 250 was upgraded with even more
         premium features. The KTM super sport RC series launched next generation RC 200 and RC 125 bikes
         with new frames and vehicle specifications inspired by KTM cult MotoGP bike.




 20   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                           Management Discussion and Analysis




R&D
Despite the waves of Covid that hit Pune in FY2022, Bajaj Auto’s R&D kept driving its programs by
ensuring high attendance at office while taking care of social distancing. But this was not the only
challenge that had to be dealt with. R&D had to work rapidly on counteracting the rapidly increasing
costs of precious metal used in catalysts; react to the sudden proposal (under finalisation) by
Government of India to advance the complete BS6 OBD 2 package to 1 April 2023; and to deal with the
acute semiconductor shortage.




R&D Products




                                                                              Pulsar

                                                                              N250




N250 and F250 – The Pulsar reborn:
Bajaj Auto’s most successful motorcycle brand Pulsar has been a leader not just in India but in all its
export markets. It has been consistently upgraded over the years to keep it in sync with changing times.
However, with the new competition that it had to face, R&D had to get back to the drawing board to
redefine the Pulsar for the new world.

l   Style: The Pulsar was always big and bold. The new gen Pulsar was designed to ooze aggression
    and have a commanding presence. It comes in two iconic forms — as a brutish Naked and
    an aerodynamic Faired version.
l   Technology: The two bikes are the biggest displacement Pulsars ever built. These use highly
    refined, brand new 250cc oil cooled engines which are capable of meeting future norms. These
    provide class leading 24.5 Ps peak power. They employ gas charged Mono suspension for superior
    comfort. Both bikes have brilliant class D LED projector head lamps that are bi-functional.

These two bikes herald the arrival of a new range of Pulsar. These are modern yet are steeped in
the values of democratising the sports bike and bringing performance to the masses.


                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   21
Management Discussion and Analysis




                                                                                                  Pulsar

                                                                                                  F250




            Dominar

            400 UG




         Dominar 400 UG:
         The Dominar 400 has become a popular touring bike due to its solid 40 PS performance with a linear
         torque delivery. Its long wheelbase provides it rock solid stability at high speeds. Its powerful LED
         headlamp gives it brilliant visibility in night. The Dominar’s Siberian odyssey has further cemented the
         D400’s touring credentials.

         Seeing the strong position that Dominar was creating for itself, R&D designed a comprehensive
         upgrade for the D400, with a specialised touring package. It consists of new taller visor for wind
         protection, higher handlebars, new mobile/GPS holder, a USB charging socket to power the mobile/
         GPS, a new engine guard, new rear cast aluminium rack with pillion back support and new pannier
         stays for both sides. This new package has found great favour with the target audience.


 22   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                             Management Discussion and Analysis




                                                                                            New Gen

                                                                                            RC


New Gen RC:
The KTM RC range has been refreshed with new
style and features. The bike has been styled with
inspiration of the race winning KTM MotoGP bikes.
It presents new technology like ride by wire, quick
shifter, traction control and cornering ABS. These
offer superior performance and class-leading
safety under difficult weather conditions.




R&D Projects
Countering the rise in Platinum Group Metals (PGM) costs
FY2022 saw drastic increases in the cost of the precious metals. The PGM loading on the three-way
catalytic convertor (CAT) helps in catalysing reactions to neutralise the emissions from the engine.
The presence of the PGM in the catalyst in conjunction with the closed loop frequency intelligence (FI)
control is essential to meet the stringent BS6 norms.

Bajaj Auto’s R&D ran two complete loops of emission development for almost all its models to optimise
the cost of the catalysts. This exercise should help achieve the targeted cost reductions on its models.

Dealing with semiconductor shortages
Covid has impacted semiconductor supplies which, in turn, has affected the automotive industry. All
advanced technology components like the ABS system, FI systems, advanced displays like thin film
transistors (TFT), telematics and critical sensors have been affected. R&D is working hard to create
alternate configurations and homologating these as soon as possible.


Realigning resources to meet BS6 OBD2
In November 2021, the Government of India suddenly decided to advance the implementation of the
OBD 2 for two-and three-wheelers as a single stage from 1 April 2023 — instead of the previously
agreed introduction in two stages, first for OBD 2A from 1 April 2023 and the second of OBD 2B from
1 April 2025. Effectively, the norms were to be implemented ahead of Euro 5 OBD 2B norms but with no
time to achieve mature calibration.


                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   23
Management Discussion and Analysis




         OBD 2B involves CAT monitoring — the calibration of which needs over two years of durability testing
         and monitoring after the implementation of OBD 2A. The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers
         (SIAM) has represented the two-and three-wheeler industry and sought implementation of OBD in two
         stages as previously planned. However, Bajaj Auto’s R&D is taking no risks. It has drastically
         re-allocated its resources and program priorities to tool up and calibrate the huge range of two-and
         three-wheelers that Company manufactures. This involves a huge task of re-homologation of its entire
         range within a short period from the implementation of BS6 norms.


         Operations
         TPM
         Bajaj Auto’s ‘back end’ consists of its Manufacturing, Engineering, Development and Materials functions.
         The principles and philosophy of TPM guide these in achieving excellence both individually and
         collectively. ‘The TPM way’ has been successfully extended to include Bajaj Auto’s vendors, dealers and
         distributors with an aim to create a work culture of achieving across-the-board excellence.


         Bajaj Auto’s TPM at Operations
         Bajaj Auto is ‘first-in-the-industry’ in having all its manufacturing plants certified for the ‘Special Award
         for TPM Achievement’ by Japan Institute for Plant Maintenance (JIPM). In FY2020, the BAL Chakan plant
         was also conferred with the “Advance Special Award for TPM achievement”. We continued our TPM
         journey and have adopted ‘TPM Next’-Deepening, Widening and Evolving.
         l   Through ‘Deepening’, we focus on increasing the strength in standard TPM pillar activity and the
             creation of new pillars based on business needs.
         l   With ‘Widening’, we have expanded the scope of TPM pillar activity across the supply chain including
             vendors, dealers and distributors.
         l   With ‘Evolving’, we adapt the TPM way to be future-ready to face the challenges ahead. Under
             Evolving TPM, we have taken up various management themes for focused improvement.

         For continuous improvement in operations parameters, BAL is adopting smart manufacturing tools for
         production and process management. Further, to sustain all improvements and excel, we are working
         to develop and practice the “Bajaj Production System (BPS)” aimed at ‘Better Flow with Better Quality’.


         Vendor TPM Activities
         BAL believes that a company alone cannot be sustainable, unless it takes along its supply chain. We
         support our vendors to become globally competitive in terms of safety, quality, production, delivery,
         cost and human development. The TPM concept is pervasive at Tier I vendors’ end with the help of
         BAVA (Bajaj Auto Vendors Association). In addition, BAL’s TPM practicing Tier I vendors have extended
         TPM practices down the supply chain to their vendors.

         Under the Safety, Health and Environment pillar of BAL’s TPM and in alignment with the ‘Green
         Purchase Policy’, 70% of our vendors have been certified for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 as on
         31 March 2022.

         We have also taken up a drive to maximise supplies to all our plants from vendors within the plant
         cluster. This has substantially reduced our supply chain length and the carbon footprint with almost
         87% of supplies for all plants being made by vendors within the respective clusters.


         TPM in After-Sales Service
         TPM methodologies are being continuously spread across our domestic dealership and international
         distributor networks. As on 31 March 2022, we had 690 dealerships practicing TPM; and we have
         extended the TPM initiative to our sub-dealers. We have also started recognising our dealerships for
         bringing in a culture of excellence through TPM. As on 31 March 2022, there are 168 dealerships
         awarded with the coveted ‘BAL TPM Award’.




 24   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Management Discussion and Analysis




TPM at Overseas Distributor Plants
The culture of kaizens is very well spread across our dealers and distributors We started the
implementation of TPM at our international distributor plants. In FY2022, 16 distributor plants have
been practicing TPM for over a year. Consequently, these are now experiencing sound improvement in
manpower productivity, production rate, first-time-right quality and reduction in cost parameters. In
FY2022, four of our distributor plants were evaluated for the qualification criterion of ‘BAL TPM Award’.
DAG Nigeria, Hulas Autocraft Nepal, Nish Auto Uganda and Auto Industries Kenya have been conferred
this award. All of them have experienced more than 30% growth in their KPI parameters.


Women Employment
Our women employee strength has grown more than four times from 148 in FY2014 to 667 in FY2022.
Almost 64% of women are working in manufacturing plants and in engineering.

Capacity and Employee Strength
Table 4: Plant-wise capacities (in units per annum)

Plant                              As on 31 March 2022 Product Range



Waluj                Motorcycles               2,700,000 Boxer, CT, Platina, Discover, Pulsar
                     Commercial Vehicles        930,000 Passenger Carriers, Goods Carriers, Quadricycle
                                              3,630,000
                     Motorcycles and
Chakan               Scooters                  1,218,000 Pulsar, Avenger, Dominar, KTM, Husqvarna, Chetak
Pantnagar            Motorcycles               1,800,000 CT, Platina and Pulsar
                                              6,648,000


As on 31 March 2022, BAL’s employee strength stood at 10,134.


Human Resource
Over the last few years, Bajaj Auto has focused on 3 areas, leadership development, performance
management and employee well-being.

As part of leadership development, we have invested, developed and promoted internal talent and also
attracted key external talent for the leadership role. With focused efforts we have been able to build
a strong leadership and management cadre over the last few years. We also provide employees with
necessary tools and resources that has helped them enhance their skills, improve their overall
efficiency and productivity.

Our lateral hiring process focusses on hiring talent with new age skills like electrical, electronics,
software, app development, etc.

Our performance management system has been refined to be in sync with our philosophy of differential
rewards for differentiated performance. Grade broad banding, standardisation of salary components,
differentiation of performance thru ranking clusters have further strengthened our approach.




                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   25
Management Discussion and Analysis




         To add to this, we have focused on the well-being initiatives of our employees. This has been done by
         way of reviewing and launching policies that support employees by way of
         a. Corporate Health Benefits Scheme, Top-up policies, Voluntary Parental Mediclaim Scheme,
             Compassionate Benefits policy, etc.
         b. Supporting employees during the unprecedented times of COVID, by way of providing free
             Vaccinations to employee as well as their family, driving De-stress activities during lockdown, etc.
             and
         c. Partnering with agencies to focus on employees’ physical and mental well-being.

         Waking up every morning with enthusiasm and zest translates to good health. This led the Company to
         set up Utsah.

         Utsah is a wellness centre spread across 6.5 acres.

         Utsah is a state-of-the-art, world-class infrastructure with exemplary amenities built to foster the
         recreational and wellness needs of our employees. Conceptualised, as the name goes, to bring
         exuberance and joy, Utsah is designed to help employees grow and evolve.

         The Indoor Games area has an Air hockey facility, Pool table, Foosball table, Table-Tennis area, Carrom
         area and Board games. Utsah’s amphitheatre can accommodate 600 people. There are gazebos for
         collaborations and meaningful conversations. Its Multipurpose Hall has facilities for Badminton,
         Basketball, Futsal, Volleyball, Handball and Rock-climbing. The gym at Utsah has imported Technogym
         equipment used by Olympic athletes.

         These initiatives have led us to feature amongst India’s Top 25 Coolest Workplaces by Business Today
         in the year 2021.


         Awards
         The Company’s products, people and processes have been very well recognised and awarded. Some of
         the awards received during the year are given below.

         Product


                BBC Top Gear                           Car And Bike                            Bike India



             Two-wheeler of the                       Performance                           Bike of the Year
             Year (up to 130 cc)                  Motorcycle of the Year                     (up to 250 cc)
               Pulsar NS125                            Pulsar 250                             Pulsar F250
             Two-wheeler of the                     Viewers’ Choice
             Year (up to 250 cc)                  Motorcycle of the Year
                KTM RC200                              Pulsar 250
                                                      Best Integrated
                                                        Campaign
                                                      (Two-wheeler)
                                                        Pulsar 250




 26   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Management Discussion and Analysis




         Human Resource
         Business Today:
         l   India’s Top 25 Coolest Workplaces! for the year 2021


         The Great Manager Awards:
         l   Companies with Great Managers Award 2021
         l   The Great Manager Awards 2021
         l   T A Pai Young HR Leader Award 2021


         CII National HR Excellence Award Confluence 2021-22:
         l   Significant Achievement in HR Excellence

         Plant
         l   2 Gold Awards in ‘TPM Circle Competition’ organised by CII – Chakan Plant
         l   Gold Medal Award for ‘Productivity Improvement’ organised by IIIE – Chakan Plant
         l   Platinum Medal Award in ‘TPM Circle Competition’ organised by CII – Chakan Plant
         l   Jury Champion Award in ‘TPM Circle Competition’ organised by CII – Chakan Plant
         l   Super Challenger Award in ‘TPM Circle Competition’ organised by CII – Chakan Plant
         l   First Prize Winner in ‘Safety, Health and Environment Category’ organised by The Machinist Super
             Shopfloor (a subsidiary of The Times of India Group) – Chakan Plant
         l   First Prize Winner in ‘Green Manufacturing Category’ organised by The Machinist Super Shopfloor
             (a subsidiary of The Times of India Group) – Chakan Plant
         l   2 Gold Medal Winners in ‘Quality Circle Competition’ organised by QCFI – Waluj Plant
         l   First Prize Winner of ‘The Champions Trophy 2021 for Quality’ organised by CII – Pantnagar Plant
         l   First Prize Winner in ‘National Convention’ organised by QCFI – Pantnagar Plant




 28   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Management Discussion and Analysis




Financials
Table 5 gives the summarised standalone profit and loss statement of Bajaj Auto.

Table 5: Standalone Profit and Loss Statement
                                                                                                 (H In Crore)

Particulars                                                                FY2022      FY2021    Growth%



Operations
Sales                                                                       32,136      27,133       18.4%
Other operating income                                                       1,009        608
Total operating income                                                     33,145      27,741       19.5%


Cost of materials consumed, net of expenditures capitalised                 24,317      19,597
                                                                            73.4%       70.6%
Stores and tools                                                               132        116
                                                                              0.4%       0.4%
Employee cost                                                                1,356       1,283
                                                                              4.1%       4.6%
Factory, administrative and other expenses                                     820        717
                                                                              2.4%       2.6%
Sales and after sales expenses                                               1,131        965
                                                                              3.4%       3.5%
Total expenditure                                                          27,756      22,678
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)        5,389       5,063        6.4%
EBITDA%                                                                     16.3%       18.3%
Interest                                                                         9           7
Depreciation and amortisation                                                  269        259
Operating profit                                                             5,111       4,797        6.5%
                                                                            15.4%       17.3%
CSR spends and donations                                                      128         131
Operating Profit less CSR spends & donations                                 4,983       4,666
Non-operating income                                                         1,209       1,276
Less: Non-operating expense                                                      2           3
Non-operating income, net                                                    1,207       1,273
Profit before tax and exceptional item                                       6,190       5,939        4.2%
Exceptional item (Income)/Expense                                            (315)           -
Profit before tax                                                            6,505       5,939        9.5%
Tax expense                                                                  1,486       1,384
Profit after tax                                                             5,019       4,555      10.2%
Surplus cash and cash equivalents as on 31 March                           19,090      17,689         7.9%
Return on Operating Capital Employed (ROCE)                                  214%        189%

Our surplus funds are invested in (i) fixed income securities rated A1+ and equivalent for short term
investments, (ii) AA+ and above rated securities for long term investments, and (iii) fixed deposits with
banks and finance companies.




                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   29
Management Discussion and Analysis




         As required for listed companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Table 6 gives the
         key ratios.

         Table 6: Bajaj Auto’s Key Financial Ratios, Standalone

         Particulars                   FY2022     FY2021 Remarks



         Debtors Turnover Ratio          15.18      12.22
         Inventory Turnover Ratio        17.86      15.34
         Current Ratio                    2.13        2.51
         Operating Profit Margin        15.4%       17.3%
         Net Profit Margin              14.6%       15.7%
         Return on Net Worth            19.4%       20.2%


         Subsidiaries
         Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV)
         Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV) is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of
         Bajaj Auto Ltd.. Over the years 2007 to 2013, through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of
         €198.1 million (H 1,219 crore) and held approximately 48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM), the fastest
         growing motorcycle brand in the world.

         On 29 September 2021, BAIH BV swapped 46.5% stake in KTM AG for 49.9% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG
         (PBAG). 50.1% in PBAG is held by Pierer Group.

         Pierer Bajaj AG (formerly PTW Holding AG) holds 73.3% stake in Pierer Mobility AG. Pierer Mobility AG
         (PMAG) is Europe’s leading “Powered Two-wheeler” manufacturer with focus on highly innovative
         sports motorcycles and electric mobility-E bicycles, E motorcycles, etc. With KTM, HUSQVARNA and
         GASGAS motorcycle brands, it is a leading premium motorcycle manufacturer in Europe. With
         conventional and E bicycles under Ramon, Husqvarna, Gas Gas and Felt brands, it is a strong player in
         this fast growing segment.

         With this re-structuring in September, Bajaj Auto and Pierer Group now partner in all Mobility
         businesses that Pierer Group engages in. The resultant gain in fair value of H501.23 crore is shown
         as an exceptional item in consolidated results.

         Subsequently, KTMAG announced a buy back program on 5 November 2021. BAIHBV tendered the
         balance 161,939 shares (1.49% stake in KTM AG left after the swap explained above) in this buy back.
         The resultant gain of H74.90 crore is shown as Other income in consolidated results.

         In the year 2021, PMAG recorded a strong performance in Motorcycles, with sale of 332,881 units and
         in bicycles with sale of 102,753 units (of which 76,916 were e-bicycles) and registered a record top-line
         of over €2 billion.


         Chetak Technology Ltd.
         The electric vehicle (EV) market, while still nascent, is constantly witnessing new developments.
         Two-wheelers are expected to be the early mover to the electric vehicle space, especially given the
         push from the Government of India and various state governments, through their various incentive
         schemes.

         Given the stakes and likely impact of EVs on its business, Bajaj Auto wants to be ahead of this curve.
         For effectively engaging in this domain, Bajaj Auto felt the need to form a new Company: a 100%
         subsidiary called Chetak Technology Ltd.




 30   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                              Management Discussion and Analysis




The new subsidiary was formed on 4 October 2021 with initial paid-up equity share capital of H 5 crore
and additional capital of H 45 crore is being infused by way of Rights issue in April 2022. Plans have also
been drawn to set up a new state of the art manufacturing facility at Akurdi.

To give prime focus to the EV space and to develop new technologies and products, the Company now
intends to house all its EV related activities – R&D of new technologies, R&D for product development,
manufacturing, sales, after-sales and customer centric experience — to this newly formed
100% subsidiary.


Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand with an issued
and subscribed share capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H 10 crore). The intent being to set up an
International Business Centre (IBC) to oversee sales in the ASEAN region and an Engineering Design
Centre (EDC) under this subsidiary. This marks a new beginning for Bajaj Auto’s R&D expanding its
design center to trend-defining markets around the globe.

Bajaj Auto (Thailand) has obtained all necessary approvals from local authorities. The EDC is
operational and international designers are working from this new facility in Bangkok. Full scale
operations including IBC will commence in the coming year.


Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.
Bajaj Auto Spain S.L. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Barcelona, Spain with an issued
and subscribed share capital of €600K (H 5 crore). The intent being to setup an Engineering Design
Centre.

The EDC has just started operations and is expected to be fully operational in the coming year.


Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd. (BACFL)
Financing is key to every automobile business. In India, nearly 65% of two-wheelers and 85% of
three-wheelers retailed are financed. To increase geographic coverage and expand financing options
for the retail customers of Bajaj Auto Ltd. and Chetak Technology Ltd., a wholly owned captive financing
company was formed.

This new subsidiary with an initial paid-up equity share capital of H 5 crore has applied to RBI for
an NBFC license and is drawing up plans to set up a new organisation, infrastructure and processes for
the proposed NBFC.

Even after the new NBFC is formed and fully operational, Bajaj Auto would continue to offer financing
options to its business partners and retail customers through other lenders in the market.


Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda
To address the motorcycle market in Brazil, Bajaj Auto has set up a wholly owned subsidiary on
31 March 2022. The process to obtain necessary approvals for introduction of equity share capital and
setting up operations in Brazil is currently underway. Full scale operations are likely to commence in
the coming year.




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     31
Management Discussion and Analysis




         Consolidation of accounts and
         segment reporting
         Table 7: Segment Revenue and Segment Results
                                                                                                          (H In Crore)

         Segment Revenue                                                                    FY2022          FY2021



         Automotive                                                                          33,272          27,750
         Investment and others                                                                1,157            1,268
                                                                                             34,429         29,018


         Segment Results
         Profit/(Loss) from each segment before tax
         Automotive                                                                           6,505            4,984
         Investment and others                                                                1,155            1,264
                                                                                              7,660           6,248
         Less: Interest                                                                           8                 7
         Profit before tax                                                                    7,652           6,241
         Profit after tax                                                                     6,166           4,857



         Outlook
         It is fair to say that Bajaj Auto has overcome the challenges posed by Covid-19 in FY2021 and has
         turned the corner. Our operational and financial results for FY2022 have been significantly superior to
         those of the previous year. Indeed, these could have been even better had we not faced the crippling
         semiconductor shortage that seriously constrained the production of our entire range of sports and
         super-sports bikes as well as the Chetak. Thanks to the R&D work being carried out at a high pace, we
         may overcome this semiconductor constraint in the course of the year, and then target even higher
         growth — driven by the new models of our sports and super-sports bikes.

         Our export performance has been outstanding. And the concentrated way in which we focus on foreign
         markets gives us reasons to believe that years of excellent exports will continue.

         Three-wheelers have turned around after the devastating impact that Covid had on mobility. We have
         sound reasons to believe that Bajaj Auto will continue to grow three-wheeler sales, both in India and
         elsewhere. In the domestic front, our suite of CNG three-wheelers should become the preferred choice
         of purchasers in the years to come.

         Moreover, we are committed to the development of electric vehicles (EVs). Chetak is the first example.
         The setting up of Chetak Technology Ltd. as a fully owned subsidiary of Bajaj Auto will aid in the
         research, development, production and sale of EVs. These are the vehicles of tomorrow, and we want to
         be an active player in this space.

         As of now, the only fly in the ointment is the serious shortage of semiconductors. It is a global problem.
         Our R&D is working on this, while we are actively searching for alternate sources. Hopefully, this will be
         a thing of the past, sooner rather than later.

         All said and done, there are good reasons to believe that Bajaj Auto will perform even better in FY2023.
         We hope that this forward-looking statement turns out to be true.




 32   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Management Discussion and Analysis




         Cautionary Statement
         Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s objectives,
         projections, estimates and expectations may be ‘forward looking’ within the meaning of applicable laws
         and regulations. Actual results may differ from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could
         make a difference to the Company’s operations include global economy, political stability, stock
         performance on stock markets, changes in government regulations, tax regimes, economic
         developments and other incidental factors. Except as required by law, the Company does not undertake
         to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Investors are
         advised to exercise due care and caution while interpreting these statements.




 34   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance is about promoting fairness, transparency, accountability,
commitment to values, ethical business conduct and considering the interest of all
stakeholders while conducting business.

In accordance with the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and amendments thereto (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), given below are the corporate
governance policies and practices of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’, ‘Bajaj Auto’ or ‘BAL’) for the year
2021-22 (or ‘FY2022’).

This report states compliance as per requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and
SEBI Listing Regulations, as applicable to the Company. As will be seen, Bajaj Auto’s corporate
governance practices and disclosures have gone well beyond complying with the statutory and
regulatory requirements stipulated in the applicable laws, including the SEBI Listing Regulations.

Philosophy
For us, corporate governance is a reflection of principles entrenched in our values and policies and also
embedded in our day-to-day business practices, leading to value-driven growth. The commitment of the
Bajaj group to the highest standards of good governance practices predate SEBI and the provisions of
the SEBI Listing Regulations. Ethical dealings, transparency, fairness, disclosure and accountability are
fundamental canons of the Bajaj group. Bajaj Auto Ltd. maintains the same tradition and commitment.

Rahul Bajaj, the chairman of the Bajaj group for several decades who sadly passed away on
12 February 2022, was a pioneer of Corporate Governance in India and he laid the foundation for several
noteworthy corporate governance practices for the group in general and Bajaj Auto in particular.

Key elements of Bajaj Auto’s corporate governance
l   Number of Board meetings exceed the statutory requirement, including meetings dedicated to
    discussing strategy, operating plans and risk.
l   The Company’s Board comprises directors from diverse backgrounds and substantial experience,
    who are able to provide appropriate guidance to the executive management as required.
l   The Board comprises independent directors with outstanding track record and reputation.
l   All Board members are invited and encouraged to be present at committee meetings, even if they
    are not members.
l   There are pre-audit committee meetings of the chairman of the audit committee with the statutory
    auditors, the internal auditor and such members of executive management who are process
    owners.
l   There are separate meetings of independent directors without presence of non-independent
    directors or executive management.
l   There is a confidential Board evaluation process where each Board member evaluates the
    performance of every other director, committees of the Board, the Chairman of the Board and the
    Board itself.
l   Presentations by key senior management team members of the Company and its subsidiaries are
    regularly made to familiarise directors with key elements of each business.
l   Complete and detailed information are provided in advance to Board members.
l   Key governance policies are placed on Company’s website.
l   A Half-yearly letter from the management is sent to all shareholders of the Company.
l   The Company monitors its governance through a dedicated governance team.
l   Adoption of key governance policies and codes by the Board in line with best practices, which are
    made available to stakeholders for downloading/viewing from the Company’s website.
    These include:




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   35
Corporate Governance




             -   Whistle blower policy/vigil mechanism;
             -   Policy on materiality of and dealing with related party transactions;
             -   Code of conduct;
             -   Dividend distribution policy;
             -   Policy on prevention of sexual harassment at workplace;
             -   Fair Practices Code;
             -   Policy on Human Rights;
             -   Equal Employment Opportunity and Non-Discrimination policy.

         Further details of these principles are highlighted in the appropriate sections in this document.

         Board of Directors
         The Company’s policy is to have an appropriate blend of executive, independent and non-independent
         directors to maintain independence of the Board and to separate the Board functions of governance
         from that of management.


         Composition
         As per regulation 17(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, where the Chairman is non-executive or a
         promoter, at least one half of the Board of a Company should consist of independent directors.
         As Table 1 shows, this provision is met at BAL.

         As on 31 March 2022, the Board consisted of 14 directors, of whom three were executive (including the
         managing director), seven were non-executive as well as independent (including two women
         independent directors) and four were non-executive and non-independent. The Board has no
         institutional nominee director.

         Further particulars about the directors are mentioned in the Board’s Report.


         Number of meetings of the Board
         During FY2022, the Board met five times: 29 April 2021, 22 July 2021, 27 October 2021,
         19 January 2022 and 15 March 2022. The gap between any two meetings has been less than 120 days.

         As per the relaxation given by MCA due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all the Board and committees
         meetings of the Company during the year under review were held in hybrid mode (Physical meeting
         plus meeting held through video conferencing).


         Attendance record of directors
         Table 1 gives the composition of Bajaj Auto’s Board and the attendance record of its directors.

         Table 1: Composition of the Board and attendance record of directors
         for FY2022
                                                                                             No. of
                                                                                 No. of      Board         Whether
                                                    Relationship with         shares held   Meetings       attended
         Name of director Category                  other directors           by director   attended       last AGM



         Niraj Bajaj        Chairman,               Brother of Madhur Bajaj
                            non-executive           and Shekhar Bajaj           719,022*       5/5            Yes
         Madhur Bajaj       Vice Chairman,          Brother of Shekhar
                            non-executive           Bajaj and Niraj Bajaj      1,002,552*      5/5            Yes
         Rajiv Bajaj        Managing Director and
                            CEO, executive          Brother of Sanjiv Bajaj     756,200*       4/5            Yes
         Sanjiv Bajaj       Non-executive           Brother of Rajiv Bajaj      769,224*       5/5            Yes




 36   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                    Corporate Governance




Table 1: Composition of the Board and attendance record of directors
for FY2022 (Contd.)
                                                                                                          No. of
                                                                                           No. of         Board       Whether
                                                        Relationship with               shares held      Meetings     attended
Name of director Category                               other directors                 by director      attended     last AGM



Shekhar Bajaj           Non-executive                   Brother of Madhur Bajaj
                                                        and Niraj Bajaj                      6,020         5/5           Yes
D J Balaji Rao          Non-executive,
                        independent                                   –                         –          5/5           Yes
Dr. Gita Piramal        Non-executive,
                        independent                                   –                         –          4/5           Yes
Pradeep                 Executive Director
Shrivastava                                                           –                        75          5/5           Yes
Dr. Naushad             Non-executive,
Forbes                  independent                                   –                      3,500         5/5           Yes
Anami N. Roy            Non-executive,
                        independent                                   –                         –          5/5           Yes
Rakesh Sharma           Executive Director                            –                      4,164         5/5           Yes
Ms. Lila                Non-executive,
Poonawalla              independent                                   –                         –          5/5           Yes
Pradip Shah             Non-executive,
                        independent                                   –                      4,000         4/5           Yes
Abhinav Bindra          Non-executive,
                        independent                                   –                         –          5/5           Yes
Notes:
1.   Rahul Bajaj resigned as Chairman of the Company on 30 April 2021 and was appointed as Chairman Emeritus of
     the Company w.e.f. 1 May 2021. He later expired on 12 February 2022.
2.   Dr. Omkar Goswami resigned on 9 July 2021 and ceased to be an independent director of the Company w.e.f. 9 July 2021.
3.   *The equity shares also includes shares held in the capacity of trustee of private family trusts.


Board diversity
In compliance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board through nomination and
remuneration committee has devised a policy on Board diversity. The Board comprises adequate
number of members with diverse experience and skills, such that it best serves the governance and
strategic needs of the Company. The directors are persons of eminence in areas such as business,
industry, finance, law, administration, economics etc. and bring with them experience and skills which
add value to the performance of the Board. The directors are selected purely on the basis of merit with
no discrimination on race, colour, religion, gender or nationality.

A brief profile of the directors is available on the website of the Company at
https://www.bajajauto.com/about-us/bajaj-team


Opinion of the Board
The Board confirms that, in its opinion, the independent directors on the Board fulfil the conditions
specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations and the Act and are independent of the management.


Non-executive directors’ compensation
The shareholders of the Company through a special resolution passed at the annual general meeting of the
Company held on 22 July 2021 have, by way of an enabling provision, approved payment of commission up
to a sum not exceeding one percent of the net profits of the Company, calculated in accordance with the
provisions of section 197 and 198 of the Act, to the non-executive directors, in the manner as may be
decided by the Board of directors from time to time during the five year term up to 31 March 2026.


                                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited          37
Corporate Governance




         Consistent with this approval from the shareholders, non-executive directors of the Company are
         being paid, in addition to the sitting fee of H 100,000 per meeting for every meeting of the Board and
         its Committees, commission at the rate of H 250,000 per meeting of the Board and its Committees
         attended by them as member, subject to the overall ceiling of one percent of the net profits.

         In consideration of the services rendered by Rahul Bajaj as Chairman for the month of April 2021,
         commission of H 2,50,000 became due to be paid to him pursuant to necessary approvals obtained
         from the shareholders through a postal ballot on 16 March 2020. As stated earlier, he ceased to be
         Non-executive Chairman w.e.f. 1 May 2021.

         The Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 for the benefit of the
         permanent employees and/or directors of the Company and/or its holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary
         company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any employee who is a promoter or belonging to
         the promoter group.

         Compensation to the non-executive (including independent) directors reflects the time, effort, attendance
         and participation of such directors in Board and committee meetings. Payment to them is linked
         to their attendance.


         Information supplied to the Board
         In advance of each meeting, the Board is presented with relevant information on various matters
         related to the working of the Company, especially those which require deliberation at the highest level.
         Presentations are also made to the Board by different functional heads on important matters from time
         to time. Directors have separate and independent access to the officers of the Company. In addition to
         such items as required to be placed before the Board for its noting and/or approval, information is
         provided on various other significant items as well.

         In terms of quality and importance, the information supplied by the management to the Board of the
         Company is far ahead of the list mandated under regulation 17(7) read with Part A of Schedule II to the
         SEBI Listing Regulations.

         The independent directors of the Company at their meeting held on 15 March 2022 have expressed
         satisfaction on the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s
         management and the Board and have confirmed that these significantly aid the Board to effectively and
         reasonably perform its duties.

         Pursuant to various regulatory requirements, and in compliance with applicable laws, and keeping in
         view the business requirements, the Board is, inter-alia, apprised on the following:

         l   Business plans, forecast and strategic initiatives.
         l   Capital expenditure and updates.
         l   Internal financial controls.
         l   Succession planning and organisation structure.
         l   Details of incidence of frauds and corrective action taken thereon.
         l   Performance of subsidiaries.
         l   Status of compliances with Companies Act, 2013, SEBI regulations and shareholder related matters.
         l   Various policies framed by Company from time to time.
         l   Risk management system, risk management policy and strategy followed.
         l   Compliance with corporate governance standards.
         l   Minutes of meetings of risk management and other Board committees.
         l   Compliance with fair practices code.
         l   Changes in regulatory landscape.

         To leverage technology and move towards paperless systems, the Company has, since several years,
         adopted a web-based application for transmitting Board/committee meetings papers. Directors of the
         Company receive Board papers in electronic form through this application. This application meets high
         standards of security and integrity required for storage and transmission of Board/committee papers
         in electronic form.


 38   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                          Corporate Governance




Directors and officers liability insurance (D&O policy)
The Company has in place a D&O policy which is renewed every year. It covers directors (including
independent directors) of the Company. The Board is of the opinion that the quantum and risks
presently covered are adequate.


Orderly succession to Board and senior management
One of the key functions of the Board of directors is selecting, compensating, monitoring, and when
necessary, replacing key managerial personnel and overseeing succession planning.

Pursuant to regulation 17(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the framework of succession planning for the
Board and senior management is placed before the Board for its review. During the year under review, the
Board of the Company satisfied itself that plans are in place for orderly succession of such appointments.


Directorships and memberships of Board committees
Details of directorships and memberships in the various committees as held by the directors of the
Company are given in Table 2.

Table 2: Number of directorships/committee positions of directors
as on 31 March 2022
                                                                                            Committee positions in listed and
                                                 Directorships                              unlisted public limited companies
                               In equity          In unlisted            In private              As member
Name of the                      listed          public limited            limited              (including as                 As
director                      companies           companies             companies                 chairman)                chairman


Niraj Bajaj                          4                   5                    9                         2                        1
Madhur Bajaj                         5                   –                    4                         –                        –
Rajiv Bajaj                          5                   2                    5                         –                        –
Sanjiv Bajaj                         5                   5                    10                        8                        –
Shekhar Bajaj                        4                   5                    5                         4                        1
D J Balaji Rao                       4                   –                    –                         3                        1
Dr. Gita Piramal                     4                   –                    2                         7                        3
Pradeep Shrivastava                  1                   –                    –                         –                        –
Dr. Naushad Forbes                   5                   1                    10                        7                        1
Anami N. Roy                         6                   3                    2                         8                        4
Rakesh Sharma                        1                   2                    –                         –                        –
Ms. Lila Poonawalla                  2                   6                    2                         6                        4
Pradip Shah                          7                   1                    7                         6                        3
Abhinav Bindra                       1                   1                    7                         –                        –

Notes: None of the directors holds office as a director, including as alternate director, in more than 20 companies at the same time. None
has directorships in more than 10 public companies. For reckoning the limit of public companies, directorships of private companies that
are either holding or subsidiary company of a public company are included and directorships in dormant companies are excluded.
For the purpose of considering the limit of the committees in which a director can serve, all public limited companies, whether listed
or not, have been included and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under
section 8 of the Act have been excluded. Only audit committees and stakeholders’ relationship committees are considered for the
purpose of reckoning committee positions.
As per declarations received, none of the directors serves as an independent director in more than seven equity listed companies or in
more than three equity listed companies in case he or she is a whole-time director in any listed company. Further, the managing director
of Bajaj Auto does not serve as an independent director in any equity listed company.
None of the directors was a member in more than 10 committees, nor a chairperson in more than five committees across all companies
in which he/she was a director.
Notwithstanding the number of directorships, as has been highlighted herein, the outstanding attendance record and participation of the
directors in Board and committee meetings indicate their commitment and ability to devote adequate time to their responsibilities as the
Company’s fiduciaries.




                                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                  39
Corporate Governance




         Directorships held by directors in equity listed companies
         Table 3 gives the names of equity listed entities where directors of Bajaj Auto held directorships.

         Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
         directorships as on 31 March 2022
         Name of director        Name of listed entities                     Category



         Niraj Bajaj             a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Chairman, non-executive

                                                                             Chairman and Managing Director,
                                 b) Mukand Ltd.
                                                                             executive

                                 c) Mukand Engineers Ltd.                    Non-executive

                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Vice-Chairman, non-executive



         Madhur Bajaj            a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Vice-Chairman, non-executive

                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive

                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive

                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive

                                 e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                   Non-executive



         Rajiv Bajaj             a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Managing Director and CEO, executive

                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive

                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive

                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive

                                 e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                   Non-executive



         Sanjiv Bajaj            a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive

                                 b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Chairman, non-executive

                                                                             Chairman and Managing Director and
                                 c) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
                                                                             CEO, executive

                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Managing Director and CEO, executive

                                 e) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                Chairman, non-executive



         Shekhar Bajaj           a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive

                                                                             Chairman and Managing Director,
                                 b) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.
                                                                             executive

                                 c) Hercules Hoists Ltd.                     Chairman, non-executive

                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Chairman, non-executive



         D J Balaji Rao          a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent




 40   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                         Corporate Governance




Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
directorships as on 31 March 2022 (Contd.)

Name of director      Name of listed entities                    Category



Dr. Gita Piramal      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent

                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                      c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                      d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.        Non-executive, independent



Pradeep Shrivastava   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Executive



Dr. Naushad Forbes    a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent

                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                      c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.        Non-executive, independent

                      d) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                      e) Zodiac Clothing Company Ltd.            Non-executive, independent



Anami N. Roy          a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent

                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                      c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.        Non-executive, independent

                      d) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                      Non-executive, independent

                      e) Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd.    Non-executive, independent

                      f)   Finolex Industries Ltd.               Non-executive, independent



Rakesh Sharma         a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Executive



Ms. Lila Poonawalla   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent

                      b) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.               Non-executive, independent



Pradip Shah           a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent

                      b) Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd.              Chairman, non-executive, independent

                      c) Pfizer Ltd.                             Chairman, non-executive, independent

                      d) KSB Ltd.                                Non-executive, independent

                      e) BASF India Ltd.                         Chairman, non-executive, independent

                      f)   Sonata Software Ltd.                  Chairman, non-executive, independent

                      g) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.        Non-executive, independent



Abhinav Bindra        a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent




                                                        15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   41
Corporate Governance




         Certificate from practising Company Secretary
         The Company has received a certificate from Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company Secretary
         to the effect that none of the directors on the Board of the Company has been debarred or disqualified
         from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
         or any other statutory authority. This certificate forms part of this report.


         Review of legal compliance reports
         The Board periodically reviews compliance reports with respect to the various laws applicable to the
         Company, as prepared and placed before it by the management.


         Code of conduct
         Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, requires listed companies to lay down a code of conduct
         for its directors and senior management, incorporating duties of directors as laid down in the Act.

         The Board at its meeting held on 15 September 2014 adopted a revised code of conduct for all directors
         and senior management of the Company which has been placed on the Company’s website
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

         All directors and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the code for FY2022.
         A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director and CEO is given in this annual report.


         Maximum tenure of independent directors
         The maximum tenure of independent directors is in accordance with the Act and regulation 25(2) of the
         SEBI Listing Regulations.


         Formal letter of appointment to independent directors

         The Company issues a formal letter of appointment to independent directors in the manner as provided
         in the Act. As per regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the terms and conditions of
         appointment of independent directors are on the Company’s website
         www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous


         Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees,
         the chairman and the directors
         Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an
         annual performance evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees, chairman and
         individual directors.

         The manner in which formal annual evaluation of performance was made by the Board is given below:

         l   The nomination and remuneration committee at its meeting held on 15 March 2017, approved the
             revised criteria for such an evaluation. This is available on the website of the Company at
             https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes
         l   The Company sent an email which informed directors regarding the automated process to carry out
             annual performance evaluation through an IT platform called ‘HR Craft’.
         l   From the individual ratings received from the directors, a report on summary of the ratings in
             respect of performance evaluation of the Board, committees, the chairman and directors for FY2022
             and a consolidated report thereof were arrived at.
         l   This report was then discussed and noted by the Board at its meeting held on 15 March 2022.
         l   The nomination and remuneration committee reviewed the implementation and compliance of the
             performance evaluation at its meeting held on 15 March 2022. Based on the report of performance
             evaluation, the Board and nomination and remuneration committee at their meetings held on
             15 March 2022, determined as required under law that the appointment of independent directors
             may continue.

 42   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Corporate Governance




         l   Details on the evaluation of Board, non-independent directors and Chairperson of the Company
             as carried out by the independent directors at their meeting held on 15 March 2022 have been
             furnished in a separate para elsewhere in this Report.
         l   During FY2022, the criteria and the process followed by the Company were reviewed by the
             nomination and remuneration committee and the Board and were found in order.


         Remuneration policy
         On the recommendation of the nomination and remuneration committee, the Board has framed
         a remuneration policy. This policy, inter-alia, provides (a) the criteria for determining qualifications,
         positive attributes and independence of directors (b) a policy on remuneration for directors,
         key managerial personnel and other employees and (c) details of the employee stock option scheme.
         The policy is directed towards a compensation philosophy and structure that will reward and retain
         talent and provides for a balance between fixed and incentive pay, reflecting short and long-term
         performance objectives appropriate to the working of the Company and its goals. This remuneration
         policy is placed on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes


         Board diversity policy
         In compliance with the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board, through its nomination and remuneration
         committee, has devised a policy on Board diversity. The objective of this policy is to ensure that the
         Board comprises an adequate number of members with diverse experience and skills, such that it best
         serves the governance and strategic needs of the Company. The Board composition as at present meets
         with the above objective.


         Familiarisation programme
         To familiarise independent directors with the Company’s operations, as required under regulation 25(7)
         of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has held various programmes for the independent
         directors throughout the year on an ongoing and continuous basis. Details of these are placed on
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

         During FY2022, the directors were updated extensively on the following through presentations at
         Board meetings:

         l   Risk Management Framework including Business and Operational risks, Financial risks and
             Information risks.
         l   Updates on Domestic Motorcycle business, Domestic three-wheeler and Qute business, Export
             business, Budget and Volume Opportunities for KTM, Husqvarna and EV Markets.


         Whistle blower policy/Vigil mechanism
         Pursuant to section 177(9) of the Act, regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and SEBI (Prohibition
         of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019
         amended the existing whistle blower policy.

         The whistle blower policy/vigil mechanism provides a route for directors/employees to report, without
         fear of victimisation, any unethical behaviour, suspected or actual fraud, violation of the Company’s
         code of conduct and instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information, which are detrimental
         to the organisation’s interest. The mechanism protects whistle blower from any kind of discrimination,
         harassment, victimisation or any other unfair employment practice.

         The policy is placed on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

         The directors in all cases and employees in appropriate cases have direct access to the chairman of the
         audit committee. The Company affirms that no employee has been denied access to the audit committee,
         which is charged with overseeing this policy.

         During the year, no complaint was received under the above mechanism.




 44   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                               Corporate Governance




Dividend distribution policy
The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy. The Board at its meeting held on
17 March 2021 amended the existing dividend distribution policy. More particulars are given in the
Directors’ Report.


Subsidiary companies
The Company has five overseas subsidiaries, viz. PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia, Bajaj Auto International
Holdings BV, Netherlands, Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd., Thailand, Bajaj Auto Spain, S. L. and Bajaj Do Brasil
Comercio De Motocicletas LTDA and two Indian subsidiaries viz. Chetak Technology Ltd. and Bajaj Auto
Consumer Finance Ltd. These are not ‘material subsidiaries’ as defined under regulation 16(1)(c) of the
SEBI Listing Regulations.

The revised policy on ‘material subsidiaries’ in terms of regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing
Regulations as approved by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019 is placed on
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

Provisions to the extent applicable and as required under regulation 24 of the SEBI Listing Regulations
with reference to subsidiary companies were duly complied with.

During the year, the audit committee reviewed the financial statements (in particular, the investments
made) of its unlisted subsidiary companies, to the extent applicable. Minutes of the Board meetings of
the subsidiary companies as well as a statement of significant transactions and arrangements entered
into by the subsidiaries, as applicable, were regularly placed before the Board of the Company.


Related party transactions
All related party transactions (RPTs) which were entered into by the Company during the year under review,
were on arms’ length basis and in the ordinary course of business, did not attract provisions of section 188
of the Act and were also not material RPTs as per regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.

All RPTs during FY2022 were entered into with the approval of the audit committee. On a quarterly basis,
details of such transactions were placed before the audit committee for noting/review.

A statement showing the disclosure of transactions with related parties as required under Indian
Accounting Standard 24 (Ind-AS 24) is set out separately in this Annual Report. Disclosures relating to RPTs
on a half-yearly basis are filed with the stock exchanges. There were no material transactions entered into
with related parties, during the period under review, which may have had any potential conflict with the
interests of the Company.

During the year under review, SEBI made substantial amendments in the matter relating to RPTs.

The revised policy on materiality of RPTs stipulating threshold limits and also on dealing with RPTs
including material modifications definitions which was approved by the Board at its meeting held on
15 March 2022, pursuant to the amended SEBI Listing Regulations, has been placed on the Company’s
website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes


Disclosures
Suitable disclosures have been made in the financial statements, together with the management’s
explanation in the event of any treatment being different from that prescribed in the Ind-AS.


Core skills/Expertise/Competencies
As stipulated under Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, core skills/expertise/competencies,
as required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively and those actually
available with the Board have been identified by the Board of directors.




                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     45
Corporate Governance




         As a green initiative, the chart/matrix of such core skills/expertise/competence along with
         the names of directors who possess such skills has been placed on the Company’s website
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

         Audit Committee
         The Company has constituted an audit committee. The Board reviews the working of the Committee
         from time to time to bring about greater effectiveness in order to comply with the various requirements
         under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.

         In compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, all members of the audit
         committee are independent, non–executive directors, are financially literate and have accounting or
         related financial management expertise.

         Pursuant to provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, the terms of reference of the
         committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019. The revised terms of
         reference are in accordance with the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. These are on the Company’s
         website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes


         Meetings and attendance
         During FY2022, the audit committee met five times: 29 April 2021, 22 July 2021, 27 October 2021,
         19 January 2022 and 15 March 2022. These meetings were scheduled well in advance and not more
         than one hundred and twenty days elapsed between any two such meetings.

         In addition to members of the audit committee, these meetings were attended by the heads of finance
         and internal audit functions and the statutory auditor of the Company and such executives who were
         considered necessary for providing inputs to the committee.

         The company secretary acted as the secretary to the audit committee.

         Table 4: Composition of the audit committee and attendance of members for FY2022

         Name of director               Category                                    No. of meetings attended



         Anami N. Roy                   Chairman, non-executive, independent                     5/5
         D J Balaji Rao                 Non-executive, independent                               5/5
         Dr. Gita Piramal               Non-executive, independent                               4/5
         Dr. Naushad Forbes             Non-executive, independent                               5/5

         The audit committee, inter-alia, discussed and deliberated on the financial results, appointment/
         re-appointment of statutory auditors, review of internal audit functions, review and approval of RPTs
         including granting of omnibus approval for the proposed transactions, review of investment-related
         reports of the Company, utilisation of loans and/or advances from/investment by the Company in
         subsidiaries, etc.

         Anami N. Roy, chairman of the audit committee, was present at the Company’s annual general meeting
         held on 22 July 2021.


         Nomination and remuneration committee
         The Company has constituted a nomination and remuneration committee. During the year under
         review, SEBI vide notification dated 3 August 2021 made certain amendments in the matter relating
         to role of nomination and remuneration committee to take effect from 1 January 2022. Hence,
         its terms of reference were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 19 January 2022.
         The committee also acts as a compensation committee for implementation of the Bajaj Auto Employee
         Stock Option Scheme 2019.




 46   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                  Corporate Governance




The detailed terms of reference of the committee have been placed on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

During FY2022, the committee met three times: 29 April 2021, 22 July 2021 and 15 March 2022.

Table 5: Composition of nomination and remuneration committee and attendance
of its members for FY2022

Name of director                       Category                                 No. of meetings attended



D J Balaji Rao                         Chairman, non-executive, independent                 3/3
Rahul Bajaj *                          Non-executive, non-independent                       0/1
Dr. Naushad Forbes                     Non-executive, independent                           3/3
Dr. Gita Piramal                       Non-executive, independent                           2/3
Niraj Bajaj**                          Non-executive, non-independent                       2/2

* Ceased to be a member of the committee w.e.f. 30 April 2021
** Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f. 1 May 2021

The company secretary acted as the secretary to this committee.

As provided under the terms of reference of the nomination and remuneration committee, the
members, inter-alia, deliberated on the following:

i)    Noting of the resignation of Rahul Bajaj as Non-executive Chairman and conferring the status and
      title of Chairman Emeritus to Rahul Bajaj w.e.f. 1 May 2021 and approving payment and facilities to
      be extended to him
ii) Recommendation for payment of special commission to Rahul Bajaj as Non-executive Chairman
      for the year 2021-22 (only one month upto 30 April 2021)
iii) Approval for second grant of stock options under Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
iv) Recommendation for renewal of approval of payment of commission to Non-executive Directors
v) Noting and approval of commission payable to Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO for the
      year 2020-21
vi) Noting of resignation of Dr. Omkar Goswami
vii) Recommendation of remuneration payable to senior management
viii) Consideration of revision in the remuneration payable to Executive Directors effective from
      1 April 2021
ix) Consideration of revision in the remuneration payable to Managing Director effective from
      1 April 2021
x) Changes to Agreements of Managerial Personnel
xi) Noting of revised terms of reference of the committee
xii) Noting of the sad demise of Rahul Bajaj and recommendation for remuneration to Late Rahul Bajaj as
      Chairman Emeritus for the period 1 May 2021 to 12 February 2022
xiii) Noting of appointment of Dinesh Thapar as Chief Financial Officer and Key Managerial Personnel of the
      Company and terms of appointment
xiv) To review the implementation and compliance of effective evaluation of performance of Board,
      its committees, chairperson and individual directors

D J Balaji Rao, chairman of the nomination and remuneration committee, was present at the annual
general meeting of the Company held on 22 July 2021.




                                                                15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   47
Corporate Governance




         Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
         (BAL-ESOS 2019)
         BAL-ESOS 2019 has been formulated by the nomination and remuneration committee of the Board to
         provide competitive remuneration opportunities to employees of the Company, through annual and
         long-term incentive plans. It was approved by the Board at its meeting held on 30 January 2019,
          and by members of the Company by a special resolution through postal ballot on 13 March 2019.

         Risk management committee
         The Company has a risk management committee, the composition of which is given in
         Table 6 below. The terms of reference of this committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held
         on 22 July 2021.

         SEBI, vide its notification dated 5 May 2021, has brought into force various amendments in SEBI Listing
         Regulations. One of the amendments pertains to the role of the risk management committee.

         As per regulation 21, read with Schedule II – Part D, the role of the committee shall, inter-alia, include
         the following:

         1. To formulate a detailed risk management policy which shall include:

            a) A framework for identification of internal and external risks specifically faced by the listed entity,
               in particular including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related
               risks), information, cyber security risks or any other risk as may be determined
               by the Committee.
            b) Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of
               identified risks.
            c) Business continuity plan.

         2. To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and
            evaluate risks associated with the business of the Company;

         3. To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk management policy, including evaluating the
            adequacy of risk management systems;

         4. To periodically review the risk management policy, at least once in two years, including by
            considering the changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity;

         5. To keep the Board of directors informed about the nature and content of its discussions,
            recommendations and actions to be taken;

         6. The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be
            subject to review by the risk management committee;

         7. The risk management committee shall coordinate its activities with other committees, in instances
            where there is any overlap with activities of such committees, as per the framework laid down by
            the Board of directors.

         The detailed terms of reference of the committee have been placed on the Company’s website
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

         The Company has a Board-approved risk management framework. The committee and the Board
         periodically review the company’s risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that
         management identifies and controls risk through a properly defined framework.

         In the year, the Company neither traded in nor had any exposure in commodities markets.




 48   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Corporate Governance




         During FY2022, the committee met two times: 27 October 2021 and 15 March 2022. The frequency of
         the meetings has been maintained to have a closer oversight of the risk management practices and
         to meet the amended SEBI Listing Regulations.

         Table 6: Composition of the risk management committee and attendance record
         of its members for FY2022

         Name of director                       Category                                 No. of meetings attended



         Anami N. Roy                           Chairman, non-executive, independent               2/2
         D J Balaji Rao                         Non-executive, independent                         2/2
         Soumen Ray*                            Chief Financial Officer                            1/1
         Rakesh Sharma**                        Executive                                          1/1
         * Ceased to be a member of the committee w.e.f. 21 December 2021
         ** Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f. 19 January 2022



         Stakeholders’ relationship committee
         The Company has a stakeholders’ relationship committee to specifically oversee shareholders’ and
         investors’ complaints on matters relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of annual report,
         non-receipt of dividend, payment of unclaimed dividends etc. The terms of reference of the committee
         were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019. These have been placed on the
         Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

         During FY2022, the committee met on 19 January 2022 to review the status of investors’ services
         rendered. At the meeting, the committee also discussed on matters that can facilitate better investor
         services and relations. The Board was apprised of all the major developments on investors’ issues
         through various reports and statements furnished to the Board from time to time throughout the year.

         Table 7: Composition of stakeholders’ relationship committee and attendance
         record of members for FY2022
                                                                                       Attendance at the meeting
         Name of director                       Category                               held on 19 January 2022



         D J Balaji Rao                         Chairman, non-executive, independent               Yes
         Dr. Gita Piramal                       Non-executive, independent                         Yes
         Dr. Omkar Goswami*                     Non-executive, independent                         NA
         Niraj Bajaj**                          Non-executive, non-independent                     Yes
         * Ceased to be a member of the committee w.e.f. 9 July 2021
         ** Appointed as a member of the committee w.e.f. 22 July 2021

         The company secretary acts as the compliance officer and as the secretary to the committee.
         The secretarial auditor was also present at the meeting.

         The committee expressed its satisfaction on the overall status of compliance and actions taken on
         various investor-related matters.

         D J Balaji Rao, chairman of the stakeholders’ relationship committee, was present at the annual general
         meeting of the Company held on 22 July 2021.




 50   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                  Corporate Governance




Table 8: Investors’ complaints attended and resolved during FY2022

Investors’ complaints                                                   Attended/resolved during the year



Pending at the beginning of the year                                                    –
Received during the year                                                               12
Disposed of during the year                                                            12
Pending at the end of the year                                                          –


Pursuant to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations for dealing with physical unclaimed shares,
the Company has a demat account with HDFC Bank, titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd.-Unclaimed Suspense
Account’, to which all the unclaimed shares stand transferred. Details on this subject and on
shareholders’ related matters have been furnished in the chapter on General Shareholder Information.

Duplicate share certificate issuance committee
To meet the requirement of section 46 of the Act, read with rule 6 of the Companies (Share Capital and
Debentures) Rules, 2014 and regulation 39 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has a duplicate
share certificate issuance committee to approve issuing of duplicate share certificate in lieu of original
share certificate(s) that were lost or misplaced, the composition of which is given in Table 9 below.

As a measure to enhance ease of dealing in securities market by the investors, SEBI through its circular
dated 25 January 2022 has mandated listed entities to issue of securities in dematerialised form only
while processing any service request including issue of duplicate share certificate.

Table 9: Composition of the duplicate share certificate issuance committee and
attendance record of its members for FY2022

                                                                                 Attendance at the meeting
Name of director                 Category                                         held on 19 January 2022



Rajiv Bajaj                      Managing Director and CEO, executive                       No
Pradeep Shrivastava              Whole-time Director, executive                             Yes
Rakesh Sharma                    Whole-time Director, executive                             Yes


Independent directors’ meeting
In compliance with Schedule IV to the Act and regulation 25(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the
independent directors held their separate meeting on 15 March 2022, without the attendance of
non-independent directors and members of management, to discuss the following:

i)   Noting of the report of performance evaluation of Board and its committees for 2021-22, sent by the
     Chairman of the Board.
ii) Review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a whole.
iii) Review the performance of the Chairman of the Company, taking into account the views of executive
     directors and non-executive directors.
iv) Assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s
     management and the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform
     their duties.
v) Noting and review of the informal meeting with senior management.

All independent directors were present at the meeting.

The independent directors present elected Dr. Naushad Forbes as Chairman for the meeting,
deliberated on the above and expressed their satisfaction on each of the above matters.


                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited        51
Corporate Governance




         In addition, the independent directors had separate meeting with senior management regarding its
         views pertaining to the business and functions.

         Remuneration of directors
         Pecuniary relationship/transaction with non-executive directors
         During the year, there was no pecuniary relationship or transaction with any non-executive director of
         the Company, apart from their remuneration as directors.

         The register of contracts is maintained by the Company pursuant to section 189 of the Act. This is
         signed by all the directors present at respective Board meetings.


         Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors
         As stated earlier, the remuneration policy disclosing the criteria of making payments to directors, key
         managerial personnel and employees is placed on the Company’s website
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes


         Non-executive directors
         As stated earlier in this report, non-executive directors are paid sitting fees and commission.


         Executive directors
         During the year, the Company paid remuneration to Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO and
         Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, executive directors of the Company as provided in detail in
         Form MGT-7, i.e. the annual return. The same can be accessed at
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

         Executive directors are entitled to superannuation benefits payable in the form of an annuity from an
         approved life insurance company, which form part of the perquisites allowed to them. No pension is
         paid by the Company.


         Details of remuneration to directors
         As stated elsewhere in this report, the Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
         Scheme 2019 for the benefit of the permanent employees and/or directors of the Company and/or its
         holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary Company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any
         employee who is a promoter or belongs to the promoter group.

         During the year, none of the directors was paid any performance-linked incentive, apart from
         Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, who are executive directors.

         In FY2022, the Company did not advance any loans to any of the non-executive directors and/or the
         managing director. Details of remuneration paid/payable to non-executive directors for the year are
         provided in Form MGT-7, i.e. the annual return, which is available on the website of the Company at
         https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance




 52   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Corporate Governance




         Management
         Management discussion and analysis
         This is given as separate chapter in the Annual Report.


         Disclosure of material transactions
         Pursuant to regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, senior management has made periodical
         disclosures to the Board relating to all material financial and commercial transactions, where they had
         (or were deemed to have had) personal interest that might have been in potential conflict with the
         interest of the Company. There was only one case involving a member of the senior management.
         In this instance, the disclosure was discussed, reviewed and found in order by the Board.


         Compliances regarding insider trading
         Pursuant to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, (‘SEBI PIT
         Regulations’) the Company has a Board approved code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report
         trading by insiders (‘Code of Conduct’) and a code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of
         unpublished price sensitive information (‘Code of Fair Disclosure’).

         Wherever non-compliance by an employee concerned was observed, penalty was levied and the
         amount was remitted to the stipulated fund.

         By frequent communication, the Company makes designated employees conversant of the obligations
         under the insider trading regulations.

         The status of compliance with SEBI PIT Regulations is also reviewed by audit committee and Board.

         Means of communication
         Quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results and other public notices issued for the shareholders
         are published in numerous leading dailies, such as Financial Express, Business Standard, Kesari, Mint and
         Hindu Business Line. An official press release is also issued.

         The Company also sends its half-yearly financial results along with a detailed write-up to shareholders.

         The Company website, www.bajajauto.com, contains all important public domain information including
         presentations, if any, made to the media, analysts and institutional investors. It contains information as
         prescribed under the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations including details of the corporate contact persons
         and share transfer agent of the Company, shareholding pattern etc.

         Section 20 and 136 of the Act, read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 permit companies to service
         delivery of documents electronically at the registered members’/shareholders’ email addresses.

         During the year under review, the Company sent documents, such as notice calling the general meeting,
         audited financial statements, directors’ report, auditors’ report, credit of dividend intimation letters, etc. in
         electronic form at the email addresses provided by the shareholders and made available by them to the
         Company through the depositories. Shareholders desiring to receive the said documents in physical form
         continued to get these physically upon request.

         All financial and other vital official news releases and documents under the SEBI Listing Regulations are
         also communicated to the concerned stock exchanges, besides being placed on the Company’s website.




 54   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                               Corporate Governance




Information on general body meetings and special resolution(s) passed
During the previous three years, the annual general meetings (AGM) of the Company were held at the
registered office at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 on the following dates and time. In these,
the following special resolutions were passed:

Details of AGM Date and time of AGM Details of special resolution(s) passed at the AGM, if any



12th AGM         26 July 2019            1. Approval of appointment of Rakesh Sharma as a Whole-time
                 at 12.15 p.m.              Director, with the designation as Executive Director
                                         2. Appointment of Smt. Lila Firoz Poonawalla as an Independent
                                            Director of the Company for a term of five consecutive years
                                            with effect from 1 April 2019 (age over 75 years)
                                         3. Re-appointment of Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani as an
                                            Independent Director of the Company for a second term of five
                                            consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019
                                         4. Re-appointment of Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton as an
                                            Independent Director of the Company for a second term of five
                                            consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2019
                                         5. Maintaining the number of maximum directors of
                                            the Company
13th AGM         22 July 2020            1. Re-appointment of Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj as Managing
(e-AGM)          at 12.15 p.m.              Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for a period
                                            of five years with effect from 1 April 2020
                                         2. Re-appointment of Dr. Gita Piramal as an Independent Director
                                            of the Company for a second term of five consecutive years with
                                            effect from 1 April 2020
14th AGM         22 July 2021            1. Re-appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava as Whole-time Director
(e-AGM)          at 12.15 p.m.              of the Company for a period of five years with effect from
                                            1 April 2021
                                         2. Approval for payment of commission to Non-executive Directors
                                            for a period of five years commencing from 1 April 2021

All resolutions proposed by the Board have been passed with requisite majority by the shareholders.


Postal ballot
No resolution of shareholders was passed through postal ballot during the year under review.

Details of capital market non-compliance, if any
There was no non-compliance of any legal requirements; nor has there been any penalty or structure
imposed on the Company by any stock exchange, SEBI or any statutory authority on any matter related
to capital markets during the last three years.

Disclosure under Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013
This disclosure is given in the Directors’ Report.

Compliance certificate
The Managing Director and CEO and the CFO have certified to the Board regarding the financial
statements and other such matters as required under regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II to
the SEBI Listing Regulations.




                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     55
Corporate Governance




         Report on corporate governance
         This chapter, read together with the information given in the Directors’ Report and the chapters on
         Management Discussion and Analysis and General Shareholder Information, constitute the compliance
         report on corporate governance during FY2022. The Company has been regularly forwarding the
         quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges as required under regulation 27(2) of the SEBI
         Listing Regulations.

         Statutory auditors
         S R B C & CO LLP are the statutory auditors of the Company. Total fees paid by the Company and its
         subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis to the auditors including all entities in their network firm/entity of
         which they are a part is given below:
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

         Sr. No.   Particulars                                        Statutory Audit Fee        Other Services



            1      Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                                     1.80                       2.17
            2      PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                                 -                           -
            3      Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV, Netherland                         -                           -
            4      Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                          0.05                             -
            5      Chetak Technology Ltd.                                              0.01                             -
            6      Bajaj Auto Spain, S. L.                                                  -                           -
            7      Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas LTDA                            -                           -

         Auditors’ certificate on corporate governance
         The Company has obtained the certificate from its statutory auditors regarding compliance with the
         provisions relating to corporate governance laid down in Part E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing
         Regulations. This is annexed to the Directors’ Report and will be sent to the stock exchanges, along with
         the Annual Report to be filed by the Company.

         Compliance of mandatory and discretionary
         requirements
         Mandatory
         The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations.


         Discretionary
         The Company has also complied with the discretionary requirements as under:

         1. The Board
            A Chairman’s office has been made available for the non-executive Chairman. He is allowed
            reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties.

         2. Shareholder rights
            A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of significant events in the
            preceding six months is sent to each household of shareholders.

         3. Modified opinion(s) in audit report
            The Company confirms that its financial statements are with unmodified audit opinion.

         4. Reporting of the Internal Auditor
            The internal auditor reports directly to the audit committee.




 56   Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
GENERAL
SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION
15th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
Date                              26 July 2022
Time                              2.00 p.m.
Venue/Mode                        The Company is conducting meeting through video conferencing (VC) / other
                                  audio-visual means (OAVM) pursuant to Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA)
                                  and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) circulars.
                                  For details, please refer to the Notice of AGM.
Financial Year                    1 April to 31 March


Pursuant to the applicable MCA & SEBI Circulars, as in the previous year, the annual report of the
Company for the year 2021-22 along with the notice of AGM are being sent by email to the members,
and all other persons / entities entitled to receive the same and the 15th AGM will be convened through
VC or OAVM. The Company has also made arrangements for those shareholders who have not yet
registered their email address to get the same registered by following the procedure prescribed in the
notice of AGM.

Financial calendar
Approval of audited annual results for year ending 31 March                    April/May
Mailing of annual reports                                                      June
Annual general meeting                                                         July
Unaudited first quarter financial results                                      July
Unaudited second quarter financial results                                     October
Unaudited third quarter financial results                                      January/early February



Share transfer agent
The Company appointed Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd., as its registrar and share transfer agent.
Accordingly, processing of share transfer/dematerialisation/rematerialisation and allied activities were
outsourced to it with effect from 10 July 2008.

All operations of Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd. were transferred to Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd.
with effect from 17 November 2018. The name of Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. was changed to KFin
Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (KFin) with effect from 5 December 2019. Further pursuant to conversion of
status from private limited company to public limited company, the name of KFin Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
was changed to KFin Technologies Ltd. (KFin) with effect from 24 February 2022. All share registry
services are now handled by KFin.

All physical transfers (to the extent permitted), transmission, transposition, issue of duplicate share
certificate(s), issue of demand drafts in lieu of dividend warrants, etc. as well as requests for
dematerialisation/rematerialisation are being processed in periodical cycles at KFin. Work related to
dematerialisation/rematerialisation is handled by KFin through connectivity with National Securities
Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL).




                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   57
General Shareholder Information




         Date of record date
         The Company has fixed Friday, 1 July 2022 as the ‘Record Date’ for the purpose of determining the
         members eligible to receive dividend for the financial year 2021-22.

         Dividend and date of dividend payment
         The Board of Directors has proposed a dividend of H 140 per equity share (1400%) of the face value of
          H 10 for the financial year 2021-22, subject to approval of members at the ensuing AGM as against
         H 140 per equity share (1400%) for the previous year.

         Dividend on equity shares, if declared, at the AGM, will be credited/dispatched on 30 July 2022, as under:

         a) to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided to the
            Company by the share transfer agent of the Company i.e., KFin, as on closing hours on
            Friday, 1 July 2022; and

         b) to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form as per beneficial ownership
            details provided to the Company by NSDL and CDSL, as of the closing hours of the day on
            Friday, 1 July 2022

         Payment of dividend
         SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the SEBI Listing Regulations,
         2015) read with SEBI circular dated 20 April 2018, require companies to use any electronic mode of
         payment approved by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for making payment to shareholders. Accordingly,
         the dividend, if declared, will be paid through electronic mode, where the bank account details of
         members are available. Where dividend payments are made through electronic mode, intimation
         regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the shareholders.

         In cases where the dividend cannot be paid through electronic mode, it will be paid by account payee
         non-negotiable instruments/warrants with bank account details printed thereon. In case of non-
         availability of bank account details, address of the members will be printed on such payment
         instruments.

         Pursuant to the circular mentioned above, the Company has written to shareholders holding shares in
         physical form requesting them to furnish details regarding their PAN and also their bank details for
         payment of dividend through electronic mode. Those shareholders who are yet to respond to the
         Company’s appeal in this regard are again requested to take action on this matter at the earliest.

         Members are requested to submit PAN, contact details, Bank account details and specimen signature
         (as applicable) to their Depository Participant (DP) in case of holding in dematerialised form or to KFin
         (through Form ISR-1, Form ISR-2) in case of holdings in physical form. The said forms can be
         downloaded from the website of the Company at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous
         and RTA at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx

         To enable payment of dividend through electronic mode, members holding shares in physical form are
         requested to furnish, on or before 1 July 2022, updated particulars of their bank accounts to KFin along
         with a photocopy of a cancelled cheque of the bank account and self-attested copy of PAN card.

         Beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form are requested to furnish their bank account details
         to their respective depository participants and ensure that such changes are recorded by them
         correctly before 1 July 2022. The request to update particulars of bank account should be signed as per
         the specimen signature registered with KFin/depository participants, as the case may be.

         Tax deducted at source (TDS) on dividend
         Pursuant to the changes introduced by the Finance Act, 2020, w.e.f. 1 April 2020 as in the previous year,
         there will be no Dividend Distribution Tax payable by the Company. The dividend, declared, will be
         taxable in the hands of the shareholders subject to tax deduction at source at the applicable rates.


 58    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                  General Shareholder Information




The TDS rate would vary depending on the residential status of the shareholders and the documents
submitted by them and accepted by the Company. For the detailed process and formats of declaration,
please refer to FAQs on Tax Deduction at Source on Dividends available on the Company’s website at
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/dividend

Unclaimed dividends
As per section 124(5) of Companies Act, 2013, any money transferred by the Company to the unpaid
dividend account and remaining unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of such transfer
shall be transferred to a fund called the Investor Education and Protection Fund (the ‘Fund’) set up by
the Central Government.

Accordingly, unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial years 2007-08 to 2013-14 has been already
transferred by the Company to this said Fund from September 2015 onwards.

Unclaimed dividend amounting to H 12,450,100/-in respect of financial year 2013-14 was transferred to
the Fund in compliance with the provisions of section 125 of the Act.

Unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial year 2014-15 shall become due for transfer to the Fund in
August/September 2022. Members are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, for
the 2014-15, before such amount becomes due for transfer. Communications are being sent to
members, who have not yet claimed dividend for 2014-15, requesting them to claim the same as well
as unpaid dividend, if any, for subsequent years.

As a measure to reduce the unclaimed dividend, efforts are being made on an ongoing basis to reach
out to shareholders requesting them to submit necessary documents to enable them to claim their
unpaid or unclaimed dividend.

The following are the details of unclaimed dividends which are due to be transferred to the Fund in the
coming years including current year. Once again, members who have not claimed the dividends till date
are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, before the same becomes due for
transfer as per the table given below.

                                       Date of Declaration    Last date for
Year            Dividend Type          AGM Date               claiming dividend     Due date for transfer



2014-2015       Final                  23 July 2015           21 August 2022        20 September 2022
2015-2016       Interim                23 March 2016          22 April 2023         21 May 2023
2015-2016       Final                  27 July 2016           25 August 2023        24 September 2023
2016-2017       Final                  20 July 2017           18 August 2024        17 September 2024
2017-2018       Final                  20 July 2018           18 August 2025        17 September 2025
2018-2019       Final                  26 July 2019           24 August 2026        23 September 2026
                Interim
2019-2020       (confirmed as Final)   09 March 2020          07 April 2027         06 May 2027
2020-2021       Final                  22 July 2021           20 August 2028        19 September 2028


The Company has uploaded details of unclaimed dividend on its website at www.bajajauto.com and also
on website specified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/service

Transfer of shares to IEPF
Pursuant to section 124(6) of Companies Act, 2013 and the Investor Education and Protection Fund
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended (the ‘IEPF Rules’), all
shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or
more shall be transferred by the Company to the IEPF, within 30 days of such shares becoming due
for transfer.




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited    59
General Shareholder Information




         Accordingly, the Company will send individual letters through ordinary/speed post and e-mail to such
         shareholders, whose dividend from the year 2014-15 has remained unclaimed, requesting them to
         claim the amount of unpaid dividend on or before the date on which Company must transfer the related
         shares to the demat account of IEPF. The Company also publishes, on an annual basis, a notice in the
         newspapers intimating the members regarding the said transfer. These details are also made available
         on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

         During the year under review, the Company transferred 6,469 (previous year: 6,422) equity shares of the
         face value of H10 each relating to 45 shareholders (previous year: 22) to the demat Account of the IEPF
         Authority held with NSDL/CDSL. Details of such shareholders, whose shares are transferred to IEPF
         and their unpaid dividends for subsequent years are available on the website of the Company at
         www.bajajauto.com

         Shareholders can claim such unpaid dividends and underlying shares transferred to the Fund by
         following the procedure prescribed in the IEPF Rules. A link to the procedure to claim is available on the
         Company’s website at www.bajajauto.com

         Shareholders are requested to get in touch with the compliance officer for further details on the subject
         at investors@bajajauto.co.in

         Share transfer system
         SEBI’s amended regulation 40 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, prohibits the transfer of securities
         (except transmission or transposition of shares) in physical form from 1 April 2019. Accordingly,
         the Company has sent letters to members holding shares in physical form advising them to
         dematerialise their holdings.

         Thereafter, SEBI had fixed 31 March 2021 as the cut-off date for re-lodgement of deficient transfer
         deeds. Thus, with effect from 1 April 2021, share transfers in physical form are prohibited under any
         circumstances and the same shall be processed only in dematerialised form.

         SEBI vide its circular dated 25 January 2022 has provided the guidelines to issue the securities in
         dematerialised form by issue a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical securities certificates to the
         securities holder/claimant within 30 days of its receipt of such request after removing objections, if any.

         Share transfers received by the share transfer agent/Company are registered within 15 days from the date of
         receipt, provided the documents are complete in all respects. The total number of shares transferred in the
         physical category during 2021-22 due to transmission/deletion of name cases etc. was 117,310 shares
         versus 55,436 shares during 2020-21. Such details were placed before the Board on a quarterly basis.

         Dematerialisation/Rematerialisation of shares
         During 2021-22, 2,03,001 shares were dematerialised, versus, 51,350 shares in 2020-21.
         25 shares were rematerialised during 2021-22 versus Nil shares in 2020-21. Shares held in physical
         and electronic mode as on 31 March 2022 are in Table 1.

         Table 1: Shares held in physical and electronic mode
                             Position as on 31 March 2022    Position as on 31 March 2021    Net change during 2021-22
                                                % to total                      % to total                    % to total
         Particulars           No. of shares shareholding    No. of shares   shareholding    No. of shares shareholding


         Physical                16,803,733           5.81      17,011,759            5.88       (208,026)        (0.07)
         Demat
         NSDL                   264,811,329         91.51     265,281,149            91.68       (469,820)        (0.17)
          CDSL                    7,751,958           2.68       7,074,112            2.44        677,846           0.24
          Sub-total             272,563,287         94.19     272,355,261            94.12        208,026           0.07
          Total                289,367,020         100.00     289,367,020          100.00                -               -


 60    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
General Shareholder Information




         Stock code
         1. BSE Ltd., Mumbai                                                                   532977
         2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.                                              BAJAJ-AUTO
         3. ISIN for depositories (NSDL and CDSL)                                              INE917I01010
         4. Bloomberg                                                                          BJAUT.IN
         5. Reuters                                                                            BAJA.BO


         Listing on stock exchanges
         Shares of the Company are currently listed on the following stock exchanges:

         Name                                                Address



         1. BSE Ltd. (BSE)                                   1st Floor, New Trading Ring Rotunda Building, P J Tower
                                                             Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001.
         2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)      Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor Plot No. C-1, G Block Bandra-
                                                             Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051.

         Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 the Company has entered into a Uniform Listing
         Agreement with BSE and NSE. For FY2022, the listing fees payable to these stock exchanges have been
         paid in full.

         Market price data
         Table 2: Monthly highs and lows of Company’s shares in FY2022
         (K vis-à-vis BSE Sensex)

                                             BSE                           NSE
         Month                            High            Low           High            Low    Closing BSE Sensex



         Apr-21                       3,964.25        3,445.90      3,966.35        3,447.00                48,782.36
         May-21                       4,265.00        3,786.00      4,274.00        3,784.10                51,937.44
          Jun-21                      4,347.95        4,030.40      4,347.00        4,030.00                52,482.71
          Jul-21                      4,250.00        3,750.00      4,250.00        3,750.00                52,586.84
          Aug-21                      3,898.90        3,648.55      3,898.90        3,647.15                57,552.39
          Sep-21                      3,950.00        3,682.95      3,944.80        3,680.00                59,126.36
          Oct-21                      4,047.05        3,664.35      4,050.00        3,665.00                59,306.93
          Nov-21                      3,843.50        3,223.00      3,845.00        3,223.05                57,064.87
          Dec-21                      3,372.70        3,028.35      3,372.45        3,027.05                58,253.82
          Jan-22                      3,585.00        3,251.25      3,585.65        3,251.50                58,014.17
          Feb-22                      3,660.00        3,422.15      3,660.00        3,435.00                56,247.28
          Mar-22                      3,736.20        3,125.80      3,737.00        3,125.00                58,568.51




 62    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                          General Shareholder Information




               Bajaj Auto Ltd. stock performance vs BSE Sensex, during 2021-22,
                                 indexed to 100 on 31 March 2021

            220

            200

            180
            160
    Price




            140

            120

            100

             80

             60

             40
                   Apr 21


                            May 21


                                     Jun 21


                                                 Jul 21


                                                          Aug 21


                                                                      Sep 21


                                                                               Oct 21


                                                                                           Nov 21


                                                                                                       Dec 21


                                                                                                                 Jan 22


                                                                                                                             Feb 22


                                                                                                                                      Mar 22
                                                     31 March 2021 to 31 March 2022
                                              BSE Sensex                                Bajaj Auto Share Price




Distribution of shareholding
Table 3 gives details about the pattern of shareholding across various categories as on 31 March 2022,
while Table 4 gives the data according to size classes.

Table 3: Distribution of shareholdings across categories
                                                            As on 31 March 2022                                   As on 31 March 2021
                                                                                          % to total                                           % to total
Categories                                                 No. of shares                    capital             No. of shares                    capital



Promoters                                                     155,580,109                           53.76        155,389,904                       53.70
Friends and associates of promoters                                22,001,460                        7.60         22,348,700                        7.73
FPIs/FIIs                                                          30,347,903                       10.49         34,701,018                       11.99
Public Financial Institutions                                      23,938,071                        8.27         25,638,567                        8.86
Mutual Funds                                                       13,884,292                        4.80            9,852,302                      3.40
Nationalised and other banks                                         306,397                         0.11                  67,109                   0.02
NRIs and OCBs                                                       18,85,601                        0.65            1,304,665                      0.45
Others                                                             41,423,187                       14.32         40,064,755                       13.85
Total                                                        289,367,020                      100.00            289,367,020                      100.00




                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                              63
General Shareholder Information




         Table 4: Distribution of shareholding according to size class as on 31 March 2022
                                                        No. of shareholders            Shares held in each class
         Category                                           Number                %         Number                  %



         1 to 500                                           2,33,103           97.17      62,57,015               2.16
          501 to 1000                                          2,366            0.99      17,48,258               0.60
          1001 to 2000                                         1,448            0.60      21,03,880               0.73
          2001 to 3000                                          693             0.29      17,25,810               0.60
          3001 to 4000                                          381             0.16      13,36,672               0.46
          4001 to 5000                                          284             0.12      12,92,268               0.45
          5001 to 10000                                         613             0.26      43,72,350               1.51
          10001 and above                                       987             0.41    27,05,30,767          93.49
          Total                                            2,39,875           100.00   28,93,67,020         100.00



         Shareholders’ and investors’ grievances
         The Board of Directors of the Company has a stakeholders relationship committee to specifically look
         into and resolve grievances of security-holders on various matters.

         Routine queries/complaints received from shareholders are promptly attended to and replied.
         Queries/complaints received during FY2022 were relating to non-receipt of dividend by warrants
         as well as through electronic clearing service, TDS matters, clarification on holdings, non-receipt of
         annual report, and change of address and/or bank particulars. As on 31 March 2022, there was no
         pending issue to be addressed or resolved.

         During the year, letters were received from SEBI/the Registrar of Companies (ROC)/Stock Exchanges/
         Investors concerning twelve complaints filed by the shareholders on various matters. For each of these
         complaints, replies were sent to SEBI/ROC/Stock Exchanges/Investors in the prescribed format and
         no action remained to be taken on the Company’s side at the year end.

         Green initiative
         The Company believes in driving environmental initiatives. As a step in this direction, it availed of
         special services offered by NSDL/CDSL to update email addresses of shareholders holding shares with
         depository participant registered with these entities and who have not registered their email addresses.
         This will enable such shareholders to immediately receive various email communication from the
         Company from time to time including the Annual Report, dividend credit intimation, half-yearly
         communication etc. Shareholders who have not updated their email, are requested to do so by sending
         a request to the Company/KFin or their respective depository participant.

         Also, the company has availed of the special services offered by NSDL/CDSL for sending SMS per
         demat account where email address is not registered.

         KPRISM: a mobile service application by KFIN
         Members should note that our share transfer agent, KFin, has launched a mobile app KPRISM and
         a website https://kprism.kfintech.com for our investors. Members can download the mobile app and
         see their portfolios serviced by KFin; check their dividend status; request for annual reports; register
         change of address; register change in the bank account or update the bank mandate; and download the
         standard forms. This android mobile application can be downloaded from the Google Play Store.




 64    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
General Shareholder Information




         Demat suspense account with HDFC Bank for
         unclaimed shares
         In accordance with the provisions contained in clause 5A of the erstwhile Listing Agreement
         (corresponding to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015) as amended by SEBI through
         its circular dated 16 December 2010, the Company, during 2011-12, had sent three reminders to such
         shareholders whose shares were lying ‘undelivered/unclaimed’ with the Company; and then followed
         it by opening of the unclaimed share suspense demat account titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd. – Unclaimed
         Suspense Account’ with the HDFC Bank in April 2012.

         After completing the necessary formalities, 44,375 shares held by 148 shareholders were transferred
         to this suspense account in April 2012. Voting rights on such shares remain frozen till the rightful
         owner claims these shares.

         The Company, acting as a trustee in respect of the unclaimed shares, follows the modalities
         for the operation of the said account in the manner set out in regulation 39(4) of the
         SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015.

         The summary of this account for FY2022 is as follows:

                                                                                      No. of            No. of
         Sr. No.     Particulars                                                   shareholders         shares



               i.    Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding shares
                     lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on 1 April 2021                20                2,192
              ii.    No. of shareholders who approached the Company for
                     transfer of shares from the Unclaimed Suspense Account
                     during the year 2021-22                                                      –                 –
              iii.   No. of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
                     the Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year 2021-22                       –                 –
              iv.    No. of shares transferred to IEPF Authority during the year
                     2021-22                                                                      –                 –
              v.     Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding shares
                     lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on
                     31 March 2022                                                             20                2,192


         Nomination
         Individual shareholders holding shares singly or jointly in physical form can nominate a person in
         whose name the shares shall be transferable in the case of death of the registered shareholder(s) to
         avoid the lengthy process of transmission of shares.

         Details of nomination shall be furnished through hard copy or electronic mode with e-signatures
         as follows:

         i.   Either,
               l  Nomination through Form SH-13 as provided in the Rules 19(1) of Companies (Shares capital
                  and debenture) Rules, 2014 or
              l   ‘Declaration to Opt-out’, as per Form ISR-3
         ii. In case of cancellation of nomination by the holder(s) through Form SH-14, then ‘Declaration to Opt-
              out’ shall be provided by the shareholder(s)
         iii. Securities holder(s) can change their nominee through Form SH-14

         Nomination facility for shares held in electronic form is also available with depository participant.

         The said forms can be downloaded from the website of the Company at https://www.bajajauto.com/
         investors/miscellaneous and RTA at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx


 66    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                     General Shareholder Information




Issuance of Securities in dematerialised form in
case of Investor Service Requests
Pursuant to SEBI vide its circulars SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated
3 November 2021 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 25 January 2022 has
introduced common and simplified norms for processing investor’s service request by RTAs and
norms for furnishing PAN, KYC details and Nomination and has mandated that the listed Companies
shall henceforth issue the securities in dematerialised form only, while processing the following
service requests:

l   Issue of Duplicate securities certificate;
l   Claim from Unclaimed Suspense account;
l   Renewal/Exchange of securities certificate;
l   Endorsement;
l   Sub-division/Splitting of securities certificate;
l   Consolidation of securities certificates/folios;
l   Transmission;
l   Transposition.

For enabling the shareholders to demat their securities, the Registrar and Share transfer Agent shall
issue a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical share certificates to shareholders for enabling them
to dematerialise the securities.

Also, all holders of physical securities of the Company are mandatorily required to furnish the following
documents/details to the RTA i.e., KFin Technologies Ltd.

Form                                   Purpose



Form-ISR-1                             For registering PAN, KYC details or changes/updation
Form-ISR-2                             Confirmation of signature of securities holder by the Banker
Form-ISR-3                             Opting out of nomination by physical securities holders
Form-SH-14                             Cancellation or Variation of nomination


In view of the above, the Company has sent communication to 834 shareholders who hold securities in
physical form.

The said forms can be downloaded from the website of the Company at https://www.bajajauto.com/
investors/miscellaneous and RTA at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx



Credit Rating
The Company has neither issued any debt instruments nor undertaken any fixed deposit programme or
any scheme or proposal involving mobilisation of funds, whether in India or abroad. However, it has
obtained on 29 July 2021 ‘AAA/Stable’ rating for long-term and ‘A1+’ rating for short-term bank
facilities of the Company from CRISIL. Further, in response to letter dated 19 August 2020 of the
Company, CRISIL vide its letter dated 31 August 2020 has withdrawn “FAAA/Stable” rating on the fixed
deposits of the Company, since there are no public fixed deposits lying with the Company.




                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     67
General Shareholder Information




         Live webcast of AGM
         Pursuant to regulation 44(6) of the SEBI Regulations, 2015, top 100 listed entities shall, with effect from
         1 April 2019, provide one-way live webcast of the proceedings of their AGM. Accordingly, as in the
         previous year, the Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin to facilitate live webcast of the
         proceedings of the ensuing 15th AGM scheduled on 26 July 2022.

         Members who are entitled to participate in the 15th AGM can view the proceedings of AGM by logging
         on to the e-voting website of KFin at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ using secure login credentials
         provided for e-voting.

         AGM through VC
         Pursuant to MCA circular, the Company will also provide two-way video conferencing or webex facility
         to members to participate in the 15th AGM. For details, refer the Notice of the AGM, which is on the
         Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance
         and on the website of the stock exchanges.



         Voting through electronic means
         Pursuant to section 108 of the Act and the Rules made thereunder and provisions under the SEBI
         Listing Regulations, 2015, every listed company is required to provide its members, the facility to
         exercise their right to vote at general meetings by electronic means.

         The Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin as the authorised agency for this purpose,
         to facilitate such e-voting for its members.

         The shareholders will therefore be able to exercise their voting rights on the items put up in the Notice
         of AGM, through e-voting. Further, in accordance with the Companies (Management and Administration)
         Rules, 2014 and MCA circulars, the Company will also provide e-voting facility for members attending
         the AGM through VC or OAVM.

         Shareholders, who are attending the AGM through VC or OAVM and who have not already cast their
         votes by remote e-voting shall only be able to exercise their right of voting at the meeting.

         The cut-off date, as per the said Rules, shall be 19 July 2022 and the remote e-voting shall be open
         for a period of three days, from 23 July 2022 (9.00 a.m.) till 25 July 2022 (5.00 p.m.). The Board has
         appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary as the scrutiniser for the
         e-voting process.

         The detailed procedure is given in the Notice of the 15th AGM and is also placed on the Company’s
         website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance




 68    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
General Shareholder Information




         Outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/
         warrants
         The Company does not have any outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/warrants as on date
         of this report.

         Plant locations
         Bajaj Auto has plants located at the following places:

         1.   Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 (Maharashtra)
         2.   Bajaj Nagar, Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136 (Maharashtra)
         3.   MIDC, Plot No. A1, Mahalunge Village, Chakan 410 501 Dist. Pune (Maharashtra)
         4.   Plot No. 2, Sector-10, IIE Pantnagar, Udhamsinghnagar 263 531 (Uttarakhand)

         Address for correspondence
         Investors and shareholders can correspond with the share transfer agent or the registered office of the
         Company at the following address:


         Share transfer agent
         KFin Technologies Ltd.
         (previously known as KFin Technologies Pvt. Ltd.)
         Unit: Bajaj Auto Ltd.
         Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31and 32,
         Financial District, Nanakramguda,
         Serilingampally Mandal,
         Hyderabad 500 032, Telangana.

         Contact persons
         Bhaskar Roy
         Mohd. Mohsinuddin
         Tel. No: (040) 6716 2222
         Fax No: (040) 2300 1153
         Toll free No: 1800 309 4001
         Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
         Website: www.kfintech.com or https://ris.kfintech.com/


         Company
         Bajaj Auto Ltd.
         Mumbai-Pune Road,
         Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

         Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
         Dr. J Sridhar
         Tel. No: (020) 6610 6503
         Fax No: (020) 2740 7380
         Email: investors@bajajauto.co.in
         Website: www.bajajauto.com

         Shareholders may get in touch with the company secretary for further assistance.




 70    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The directors present their Fifteenth Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2022.


Sad demise of Rahul Bajaj,
Chairman Emeritus of the Company
At the outset, your directors express their profound grief on the sad demise of Rahul Bajaj, the iconic
leader of the Company, who passed away on 12 February 2022.

He lived an extraordinary life. He was the architect of one of the most respected industrial groups in the
country, a vocal proponent of entrepreneurship, and a voice of the industry at large.

He stood for what he believed, a man driven by values, bold in both expression and action. While he
remained the torchbearer of a family legacy that dates back to the founding days of our country,
he championed the creation of a new India.

While his passing away has left a huge void among us, he leaves behind an unparalleled foundation for
all of us to build upon.

The Board places on record its whole-hearted appreciation of the invaluable contribution made by him
to the spectacular success of the Company and the Group over several decades.

Financial Results
The financial results of the Company are elaborated in the report on Management Discussion and
Analysis. Given below are the financial highlights.

Sales in numbers                                                                  FY2022           FY2021


Two-wheelers                                                                   3,836,856        3,605,893
Commercial vehicles                                                              471,577          367,021
Total                                                                          4,308,433        3,972,914
Of which exports                                                               2,506,626        2,054,247

                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                       FY2022           FY2021


Total revenue                                                                   34,353.95       29,017.54
Total expenses                                                                  28,163.90       23,078.54
Profit before exceptional items and tax                                          6,190.05        5,939.00
Exceptional items                                                                 (315.28)              -
Profit before tax                                                                6,505.33        5,939.00
Tax expense                                                                      1,486.46        1,384.41
Profit for the year                                                              5,018.87        4,554.59
Earnings per share (K)                                                              173.6           157.5




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited       71
Directors’ Report




          Closing balances in reserve/other equity
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
          Particulars                                                                                    FY2022       FY2021


          General reserve                                                                               6,389.60     5,887.60
          Retained earnings                                                                            19,340.40    18,861.25
          Cash flow hedging reserve                                                                         54.33      148.90
          Costs of hedging reserve                                                                           5.93      (58.06)
          FVTOCI reserve                                                                                  626.41         88.43
          Share based payments reserve                                                                      32.27        16.91
          Treasury shares                                                                                 (69.51)      (32.14)
          Total                                                                                        26,379.43    24,912.89
          Note: Detailed movement of above reserves can be seen in ‘Statement of Changes in Equity’.


          Dividend Distribution Policy
          Under the Regulation 43A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
          Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations, 2015’), as amended, the Company
          formulated a dividend distribution policy on 28 October 2016, which the Board at its meeting held on
          17 March 2021 amended in a major way.

          The amended policy sets out the parameters and circumstances that will be taken into account by the
          Board in determining the distribution of dividend to its shareholders.

          As a green initiative, the policy has been uploaded on the Company’s website and can be accessed at
          https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes. A copy of the policy will be made available to any
          shareholder on request by email.

          Dividend
          The directors recommend for consideration of shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting,
          payment of a dividend of H 140 per equity share of H 10 each (1400%) for the year ended 31 March 2022.

          For the year ended 31 March 2021 also, the dividend paid was H 140 per share of H 10 each (1400%).

          In terms of the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the dividend, if declared, will be taxable in the
          hands of the shareholders subject to tax deduction at source at the applicable rates. For further details
          on taxability, please refer to Notice of annual general meeting.

          The dividend recommended is in accordance with the principles and criteria as set out in the dividend
          distribution policy.

          Share Capital
          The paid-up equity share capital as on 31 March 2022 was H 289.37 crore. There was no public issue,
          rights issue, bonus issue or preferential issue etc. during the year. The Company has not issued shares
          with differential voting rights or sweat equity shares.

          Operations
          Detailed information on the Company’s operations is in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

          Capacity Expansion and New Projects
          The Company’s current installed capacity is 6.65 million units per annum.

          Detailed information on capacity expansion and new projects is covered in the report on
          Management Discussion and Analysis.


 72    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                  Directors’ Report




Research and Development (R&D) and
Technology Absorption
In FY2022 despite the waves of COVID that hit Pune, R&D ensured high attendance at office while taking
care of social distancing and kept driving its programs. But this was not the only challenge that had
to be dealt with. R&D had to work rapidly on counteracting the rapidly increasing costs of precious
metal used in the catalysts, react to the sudden decision by Government to prepone the complete
BS6 OBD 2 package to 1 April 2023 and deal with the semiconductor shortage caused by COVID and
related outcomes.

A) Products
Bajaj Auto’s most successful brand Pulsar has been a leader not just in India but in all its export
markets. Pulsar has been consistently upgraded over the years to keep it in sync with changing times.
Information on the new products is covered in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

B) Processes
R&D has been working on improving its operations in a number of areas as listed below:

l    Manpower: R&D has expanded its team size in areas of design, analysis and validation to facilitate
     the rapidly expanding aspirations of the Company.

l    Facilities: R&D continued to enhance its design, computing, prototype manufacturing and validation
     facilities. A number of new test facilities and prototyping facilities were added.

C) Technology
As in the past, new and improved technology has been introduced during the year. Such information is
covered in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

D) Outgo
The expenditure on R&D during 2021-22 and in the previous year was:
                                                                                                (H In Crore)

Particulars                                                                         FY2022        FY2021



i.   Capital (including technical know-how)                                           42.06          21.14
ii. Recurring                                                                        446.73        403.33
Total                                                                               488.79        424.47
iii. Total research and development expenditure as a percentage of sales             1.52%          1.56%



Conservation of Energy
Company continues its efforts to reduce and optimise the energy consumption at all its manufacturing
facilities, and its corporate office at Pune.

Significant reduction in energy consumption has been achieved by various ENCON initiatives
as shown hereunder:




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited      73
Directors’ Report




          A) Electrical Energy
          		l           Efficient utilisation of rooftop solar plants: 5MW at Waluj, 1MW at Pantnagar, 3.22MW at
                        Akurdi and 2MW at Chakan.
          		l           Provision of energy efficient motors.
          		        l   Use of VFD and water temperature sensors for optimised running of cooling tower.
          		l           Provision of Localised booster for robotic painting.
          		l           Upgradation of CED paint LB1000 to LB700 having higher throwing power.
                        (Lower voltage required)
          		l           Installation of RTPFC (Real Time Power Factor Controller), ASVG (Advanced Static Voltage
                        Generator) and APFC (Automatic Power Factor Controller) to control and improve power
                        factor greater than 0.99.
          		l           Continued use of motion sensors for offices and washroom lights.
          		l           Installation of energy efficient LED luminaries at various designated areas across all
                        our factories.
          		l           Use of HVLS (High Volume Low Speed) fans for air circulation in shop floors.
          		l           Installation of centralised ARP system at Motorcycle paint shop at Waluj.
          Overall improvement in electrical energy consumption is achieved to the extent of 3.95% (w.r.t. previous
          year FY2021) despite addition of new facilities viz. ABS line at Chakan, Club house at Akurdi etc.

          B)		 Water
                    l   Continuous reuse of treated water for processes like painting, cooling towers etc. in addition
                        to gardening.
                    l   Continued rainwater harvesting across all plants.
                    l   Use of one touch taps and sensor-based taps for hand wash at various areas
                        across all plants.
                    l   Reverse cascading of water at pre-treatment stages at paint shop.
                    l   Change of underground water lines with above ground line for easy identification of leakage,
                        if any.
                    l   Rainwater storage pond with capacity 90,000 cubic meters at Waluj plant, 47,000 cubic
                        meters at Pantnagar plant, 83,500 cubic meters at Chakan plant are available for its
                        use in process.
          Overall water consumption is reduced to the tune of 3.93%, despite addition of new facilities viz. ABS
          line at Chakan, new garden at Akurdi etc.

          C)		 LPG/Propane
                    l   Continued use of magnetic resonance in oven fuel supply at paint shop.
                    l   Improved thermal efficiency of oven by thermo coating application on the oven’s
                        internal surface.
                    l   Continued use of low temperature chemicals for pre-treatment process at paint shops.
                    l   Lacquer oven auto ON/OFF during lunch and dinner time in paint shops across all plants.
                    l   Development and monitoring of automated process startup and shutdown system.
                    l   Reduction in heat load through painting fixture weight reduction.
                    l   Optimisation of CED oven exhaust through hot air balancing.
                    l   Use of energy efficient burners in the canteens in all plants.

          D)		 Utilisation of Renewable Energy-Key Initiatives
                    l   Usage of renewable solar power generation: 5MW at Waluj, 1MW at Pantnagar, 3.2MW at
                        Akurdi and 2MW at Chakan; generating 155 lakh units per year of renewable energy.
                    l   Utilisation of solar water heaters in the canteen of all plants.
                    l   Use of direct sunlight to illuminate shops by installation of skylights across all plants.




 74    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                 Directors’ Report




Impact of Measures Taken
As a result of the initiatives taken for conservation of energy and natural resources, the Company has
brought about an overall reduction in consumption as given in the table below:

                                                                     % Reduction w.r.t. previous year
Description                                                                  FY2022              FY2021



Electricity consumption                                                         3.95                10.20
Water consumption                                                               3.93                 9.60
LPG/PNG consumption                                                            17.84              (4.50)#
# Effect of lower volume of commercial vehicles.



Investment/Savings
                                                                                               (H In Crore)

Description                                                                  FY2022              FY2021



Investment for energy conservation activities                                   1.76                 1.69
Recurring savings achieved through above activities                             0.91                 0.53
Detailed information on the above is given in the report on Business Responsibility.

Awards and Accolades
l   Upgradation of “Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems” from OHSAS 18001 to ISO
    45001 by all plants of the Company.
l   Pantnagar plant received 3rd prize for “Best Energy Efficient Organisation” in Kaizen Competition
    organised by CII.
l   Chakan plant awarded 1st prize in green manufacturing machining-Times of India Group.

International Business
All regions have shown strong growth in FY2022.

During the year under review, Bajaj Auto crossed 2.5 million vehicle milestone. First time ever!!!
Motorcycle exports touched new highs – at 2.2mn units, growth of 22% over FY2021. In 10 of the
12 months, Bajaj Auto exported more than 200k units every month. The Company continues to remain,
by far, India’s No.1 exporter of motorcycles and three wheelers.

More detailed information is given in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The Company continued to be a net foreign exchange earner during the year.

Total foreign exchange earned by the Company during the year under review was H 16,280.38 crore,
as compared to H 12,181.88 crore during the previous year.

Total foreign exchange outflow during the year under review was H 902.08 crore, as against
H 753.34 crore during the previous year.




                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited      75
Directors’ Report




          Industrial Relations
          The financial year 2021-22 was also affected by the effects of Covid-19 and the 2nd and 3rd waves of
          the pandemic put a lot of pressure on employees as well as on Management. However, our robust
          Industrial relations practices, welfare schemes and employee engagement initiatives helped us run our
          business smoothly in this challenging period. The overall employee relations with staff and workmen
          across all the plants viz. Akurdi, Waluj, Chakan and Pantnagar continued to be cordial during the year,
          thus we were able to avoid any production loss due to these events.

          During this difficult time, various timely initiatives, implemented across all plants, were crucial for
          maintaining employee motivation and meeting business objectives. This includes free vaccination
          camps in factory premises for all employees and their families, a free covid testing facility in the plants,
          extending support to employees and their families for getting beds in hospitals, financial support to
          infected employees, compassionate benefit scheme for Covid related mortalities and introduction of
          Covid-19 insurance scheme for employees.

          With the active participation and involvement of all employees, we have been able to inculcate TPM
          Culture for excellence and continuous improvements across all plants. As a result, plants have received
          numerous awards during the year from CII, IIIE, QCFI etc.

          At its Waluj plant, the Company has signed the wage agreement with the Union for a period of 3.5 years
          on 31 August 2021 without any delay.

          Two of our workmen from the Waluj plant, have been named winners of the “Gunwant Kamgar
          and Kamgar Bhushan Award” for the year 2019 by the “Worker Welfare Board of the Government
          of Maharashtra”.

          Company at its Akurdi plant has started a state-of-the-art facility to cater to the wellness and
          recreational needs of employees named “Utsah”. It encompasses world-class infrastructure and
          provides exemplary amenities like Gymnasium, Yoga room, Librarywala (digital library service), Music
          room, Dance room, Indoor games, Health bar, and Speciality clinics.

          Additionally, the company has emphasised employee engagement initiatives to increase productivity
          and foster a positive work culture. Across all the plants, different employee engagement initiatives like
          kaizen competition, spot appreciation, appreciation of covid warriors, newly married couples’
          felicitation, appreciation of meritorious students, POSH awareness sessions, celebration of Women’s
          Day, Jal-Neti Yoga session, inter-departmental sports tournament, health and hygiene related
          awareness sessions, etc. were also taken up.

          Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
          PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (PT BAI)
          Routine business operations of PT BAI, a 99.25% subsidiary of Bajaj Auto, remain discontinued.

          Indonesia is a large two-wheelers market and hence of interest for PT BAI. All the required
          manufacturing, import and business licences stand renewed.

          PT BAI would continue to study the evolving market and evaluate different possible opportunities.


          Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV, Netherlands (BAIH BV)
          BAIH BV is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Ltd. Over the years 2007 to 2013,
          through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of €198.1 million (H1,219 crore) and held
          approximately 48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM), the fastest growing motorcycle brand
          in the world.

          On 29 September 2021, BAIH BV swapped 46.5% stake in KTM AG for 49.9% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG
          (PBAG). 50.1% in PBAG is held by Pierer Group.




 76    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report




          Pierer Bajaj AG (formerly PTW Holding AG) holds 73.3% stake in Pierer Mobility AG. Pierer Mobility AG
          (PMAG) is Europe’s leading “Powered Two-wheeler” manufacturer with focus on highly innovative
          sports motorcycles and electric mobility-E bicycles, E motorcycles, etc. With KTM, Husqvarna and
          GASGAS motorcycle brands, it is a leading premium motorcycle manufacturer in Europe. With
          conventional and E bicycles under Ramon, Husqvarna, GASGAS and Felt brands, it is a strong player
           in this fast-growing segment.

          With this re-structuring in September, Bajaj Auto and Pierer Group now partner in all Mobility
          businesses that Pierer Group engages in. The resultant gain in fair value of H 501.23 crore is shown
          as an exceptional item in consolidated results.

          Subsequently, KTM AG announced a buyback program on 5 November 2021. BAIH BV tendered the
          balance 161,939 shares (1.49% stake in KTM AG left after the swap explained above) in this buy back.
          The resultant gain of H 74.90 crore is shown as other income in consolidated results.

          In the year 2021, PMAG recorded a strong performance in motorcycles, with sale of 332,881 units and
          in bicycles, with sale of 102,753 units (of which 76,916 were e-bicycles) and registered a record top-line
          of over €2 billion.


          Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
          Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand with an issued
          and subscribed share capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H10 crore), the intent being to set up an
          International Business Centre (IBC) to oversee sales in the ASEAN region and an Engineering Design
          Centre (EDC) under this subsidiary. This marks a new beginning for Bajaj Auto’s R&D expanding its
          design center to trend-defining markets around the globe.

          Bajaj Auto (Thailand) has obtained all necessary approvals from local authorities. The EDC is
          operational and international designers are working from this new facility in Bangkok. Full scale
          operations including IBC will commence in the coming year.

          During the year under review, following companies were incorporated as our subsidiaries.


          Bajaj Auto Spain, S.L.
          Bajaj Auto Spain, S.L. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Barcelona, Spain with an
          issued and subscribed share capital of €600K (H5 crore), the intent being to set up an Engineering
          Design Centre (EDC).

          The EDC has started operations and is expected to be fully operational in the coming year.


          Chetak Technology Ltd. (CTL)
          Given the stakes and likely impact of EVs on its business, Bajaj Auto wants to be ahead of this curve.
          For effectively engaging in this domain, CTL was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary, with an
          issued and subscribed share capital of H 5 crore.

          To give prime focus to the EV space and to develop new technologies and products, the Company
          now intends to house all its EV related activities – R&D of new technologies, R&D for product
          development, manufacturing, sales, after-sales and customer centric experience — to this newly
          formed 100% subsidiary.

          Additional capital of H 45 crore has been infused in CTL by way of Rights issue in April 2022. Plans have
          also been drawn to set up a new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility at Akurdi.


          Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd. (BACFL)
          Financing is key to every automobile business. In India, nearly 65% of two-wheelers and 85% of
          three-wheelers retailed are financed. To increase geographic coverage and expand financing options
          for the retail customers of Bajaj Auto Ltd. and Chetak Technology Ltd., a wholly owned captive financing
          company i.e., BACFL was formed with an issued and subscribed share capital of H 5 crore.

 78    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                   Directors’ Report




An application for registration of BACFL as NBFC has been made to RBI and the matter
is under process.


Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda
To address the motorcycle market in Brazil, Bajaj Auto has set up a wholly owned subsidiary on
31 March 2022. The process to obtain necessary approvals for introduction of equity share capital and
setting up operations in Brazil is currently underway. Full scale operations are likely to commence in
the coming year.

The financial statements of the subsidiary companies are also available on the Company’s website on
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

The Company does not have any associate company, nor has it entered into a joint venture with any
other company.

The Company’s policy for determination of material subsidiary, as adopted by the Board of Directors,
in conformity with Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, can be accessed on the Company’s
website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

Anti-Corruption Initiatives
The Company has established several policies to prevent corruption within Bajaj Auto. These are
suitably integrated with the business operations. The Company also has adequate disclosure practices
with regard to anti-corruption activities. Some of these practices are given below:


Signing of the Anti-Corruption Initiative of
World Economic Forum (WEF)
In support of the initiative taken by WEF, the Company is a signatory to the ‘Commitment to
Anti-Corruption’ and is supporting the ‘Partnering Against Corruption-Principles for Countering Bribery’
derived from Transparency International’s Business Principles. This calls for a commitment to two
fundamental actions, viz. a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and the development of a practical
and effective implementation programme.


Adoption of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Charters
Your Company, being a member of CII, has adopted the following Codes/Charters:

1.   CII Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action.
2.   Model Code of Conduct for Ethical Business practices.
3.   Charters of Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Collaborative Employee Relations.
4.   Charters on Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Contract Labour.

More details on the subject are given in the Business Responsibility Report hosted on the Company’s
website on https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

Annual Return
A copy of the annual return as provided under sub-section (3) of section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013
(‘the Act’), in the prescribed form, is hosted on the Company’s website and can be accessed at
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance.

Number of Meetings of the Board
There were five meetings of the Board held during the year. Detailed information is given in the
Corporate Governance Report.




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited       79
Directors’ Report




          Directors’ Responsibility Statement
          As required under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act, directors, to the best of their
          knowledge and belief, state that:

          l   in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards had been followed
              along with proper explanation relating to material departures;

          l   the directors had selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made
              judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of
              the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of the
              Company for that period;

          l   the directors had taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting
              records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company
              and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;

          l   the directors have overseen that the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis;

          l   the directors have laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and that, to
              the best of their knowledge, examination and analysis, such internal financial controls have been
              adequate and were operating effectively; and

          l   the directors had ensured through oversight of the existence of proper systems to ensure
              compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that, to the best of their knowledge, such
              systems were adequate and were operating effectively.

          Details regarding Frauds reported by Auditors
          under section 143(12)
          During the year under review, there were no frauds reported by the auditors to the audit committee or
          the Board under section 143(12) of the Act.

          Declaration by independent directors
          The independent directors have submitted their declaration of independence, as required under section
          149(7) of the Act stating that they meet the criteria of independence as provided in section 149 (6)
          of the Act, as amended and Regulation 16 and 25 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, as amended.
          The independent directors have also confirmed compliance with the provisions of the rule 6 of
          Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, relating to
          inclusion of their name in the databank of independent directors.

          The Board took on record the declaration and confirmation submitted by the independent directors
          regarding their meeting the prescribed criteria of independence, after undertaking due assessment of
          the veracity of the same as required under Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, 2015.

          Directors’ remuneration policy and criteria for
          matters under section 178
          The salient features and changes to the policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration form a part
          of the Corporate Governance Report. The policy is on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.
          com/investors/policies-codes

          Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
          Information regarding loans, guarantees and investments covered under the provisions of section 186 of
          the Act, are detailed in the financial statements.




 80    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                   Directors’ Report




Related Party Transactions
All contracts/arrangement/transactions entered into by the Company during FY2022 with related
parties were in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations,2015.
Prior omnibus approval of the audit committee is obtained for all related party transactions, which are
foreseen and of repetitive nature. Pursuant to the said omnibus approval, details of transactions
entered into are also reviewed by the audit committee on a quarterly basis.

All related party transactions entered into during FY2022 were on an arm’s length basis and in the
ordinary course of business of the Company under the Act and not material under the Listing
Regulations, 2015. None of the transactions required members’ prior approval under the Act or the
Listing Regulations, 2015.

Details of transactions with related parties during FY2022 are provided in the notes to the financial
statements. There were no transactions requiring disclosure under section 134(3)(h) of the Act.
Hence, the prescribed Form AOC–2 does not form a part of this report.

The policy on materiality of and dealing with related party transactions was amended by the Board, at
its meeting held on 15 March 2022 in line with SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2021.

The policy is available on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

Material Changes and Commitments
There have been no material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Company,
which have occurred between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.

Risk Management Policy
During the year under review, a revised risk management policy/framework was adopted by the Board.
This framework, inter alia, includes identification of internal and external risks faced by the Company,
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability, information, cyber security, strategic or any
other risk as may be determined by the Risk Management Committee and the measures for risk
mitigation, reporting of critical risks within the Company and Business Continuity Plan.

Information on the development and implementation of a risk management policy for the Company is
given in the Corporate Governance Report.

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
The Board, at its meeting held on 29 April 2021, amended the existing policy. The policy
including the composition of the CSR committee is uploaded on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

Taking into account the commitments made by the Company for the ongoing CSR projects/programs
which are in progress and considering the project mode of CSR activity where the projects can extend
beyond the financial year, as also the amount transferred to ‘Unspent CSR Account’, there is no shortfall
in the CSR expenditure mandated to be spent by the Company during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.

Further, in light of the circular dated 25 August 2021 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) on
the Frequently Asked Questions on CSR, mere disbursal of funds for implementation of a project does
not amount to spending unless the implementing agency utilises the whole amount.

As per provisions of section 135(6) of the Act, any amount remaining unspent under section 135(5)
pursuant to any ongoing project shall be transferred by the company within a period of thirty days from
the end of the financial year to a special account to be opened by the company. Accordingly, such
amount has been transferred by the Company to the specified account within the prescribed period.
As per the said circular of MCA, this amounts to meeting of the obligation and due compliance under
section 135 of the said Act.

                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited       81
Directors’ Report




          In terms of the provisions of section 135 of the Act, read with amended Companies (Corporate Social
          Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, the Annual Report on CSR activities in the format prescribed under
          Annexure II of the said Rules is annexed to this Report.

          The Chief Financial Officer has certified that the funds disbursed have been utilised for the purpose and
          in the manner approved by the Board for FY2022.

          Formal Annual Evaluation of the Performance
          of the Board, its Committees, Chairperson and
          Individual Directors
          Information on the manner in which a formal annual evaluation has been made by the Board of its own
          performance and that of its Committees, Chairperson and Individual Directors is given in the Corporate
          Governance Report.

          Presentation of Financial Statements
          The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2022 have been disclosed as per
          Division Il of Schedule III to the Act.

          Indian Accounting Standards, 2015
          The annexed financial statements comply in all material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards
          (Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the Act, Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
          and other relevant provisions of the Act.

          Consolidated Financial Statements
          The directors also present the audited consolidated financial statements incorporating the duly audited
          financial statements of the subsidiaries, as prepared in compliance with the Act, applicable accounting
          standards and Listing Regulations, 2015.

          Internal Audit
          At the beginning of each financial year, an audit plan is rolled out with approval by the Company’s audit
          committee. The plan is aimed at evaluation of the efficacy and adequacy of internal control systems and
          compliance thereof, robustness of internal processes, policies and accounting procedures and
          compliance with laws and regulations. Based on the reports of internal audit, process owners
          undertake corrective action in their respective areas. Significant audit observations and corrective
          actions are periodically presented to the audit committee of the Board.

          Statutory Disclosures
          The summary of the key financials of the Company’s subsidiaries (Form AOC-1) is included in this
          Annual Report. A copy of the audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be
          made available by email to members of the Company, seeking such information.

          Details as required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Act, read with rule 5(1) of Companies
          (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended, containing, inter
          alia, ratio of remuneration of directors and KMP to median remuneration of employees and percentage
          increase in the median remuneration are annexed to this Report.

          Details of top ten employees in terms of the remuneration and employees in receipt of remuneration as
          required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Act, read with rule 5(2) and 5(3) of Companies
          (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended, which form part of
          the Directors’ Report, will be made available to any shareholder on request, as per provisions of section
          136(1) of the said Act.




 82    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                         Directors’ Report




The directors’ responsibility statement as required by section 134(5) of the Act, appears in a
preceding paragraph.

A cash flow statement for 2021-22 is attached to the Balance Sheet.

There is no change in the nature of business of the Company during FY2022.

The provisions of section 148 of the Act relating to maintenance of cost records and cost audit are not
applicable to the Company.

Pursuant to the legislation ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013’, the Company has a policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace.
During the year under review, no complaint has been received from employees. There was no case
reported during the year under review under the said policy.

Details as prescribed under section 134 of the Act and rules made thereunder, applicable to the
Company, have been specifically given in this Report, wherever applicable.

Directors’ and Key Managerial Personnel-Changes
I. Changes in Directorate
   (a) Dr. Omkar Goswami, Non-executive independent director of the Company tendered his
       resignation on 9 July 2021. The Board places on record its sincere appreciation for the valuable
       contribution made by him during his tenure on the Board.

   (b) Dr. Gita Piramal, Non-executive independent director of the Company tendered her resignation
       with effect from close of business hours on 30 April 2022. The Board places on record its
       sincere appreciation for the valuable services rendered by her during her long tenure
       on the Board.


II. Retirement by Rotation
   Independent directors hold office for a fixed term not exceeding five years from the date of their
   appointment and are not liable to retire by rotation.

   The Act, mandates that at least two–thirds of the total number of directors (excluding independent
   directors) shall be liable to retire by rotation. Accordingly, Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670) and
   Madhur Bajaj (DIN 00014593), directors, being the longest in the office among the directors liable
   to retire by rotation, retire from the Board this year and, being eligible, have offered themselves for
   re–appointment.

   Brief details of Rakesh Sharma and Madhur Bajaj are given in the notice of annual general meeting.


III. Appointment/Re-appointment of Directors
   The Board at its meeting held on 27 April 2022, taking into account the Report of performance
   evaluation and pursuant to the recommendation of nomination and remuneration committee
   and subject to approval by the members by way of special resolution, re-appointed following
   independent directors for a second consecutive term:

   Sr. No.     Name of independent director                                           Tenure of second term



        1      Dr. Naushad Forbes (DIN 00630825)                        Five years w.e.f. 18 May 2022
        2      Anami N. Roy* (DIN 01361110)                             Five years w.e.f. 14 September 2022
    * Consent of the members by way of Special Resolution is sought by the Company in compliance with Regulation 17(1A) of
      Listing Regulations 2015, for continuance of Anami N. Roy beyond 15 May 2025 on account of his attaining the age of 75 years
      on that date.




                                                                      15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                 83
Directors’ Report




          IV. Change in Key Managerial Personnel
              (a) Soumen Ray, resigned from the position of Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f. closing
                  hours of 20 December 2021 to explore other opportunities.

              (b) Consequent upon the resignation of Soumen Ray, the Board at its meeting held on
                  15 March 2022, pursuant to the recommendation of nomination and remuneration committee
                  appointed Dinesh Thapar as Chief Financial Officer and Key Managerial Personnel of the
                  Company w.e.f. 15 March 2022.

          There was no other change in the directors and key managerial personnel during the year under review
          since the last report.

          Detailed information on the directors is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.

          Significant and Material Orders passed by the
          Regulators or Courts
          During the year under review, there were no significant and material orders passed by the
          regulators or courts or tribunals, which may impact the going concern status of the Company and
           its operations in future.

          Covid-19 Impact
          The impact of the second and third wave of the pandemic on the performance of the Company and
          measures adopted to steer through this continuing crisis have been discussed in detail in Management
          Discussion and Analysis.

          Details of Internal Financial Controls with reference
          to the Financial Statements
          The Company has documented its internal financial controls considering the essential components
          of various critical processes, both physical and operational. This includes its design, implementation
          and maintenance, along with periodic internal review of operational effectiveness and sustenance
          and whether these are commensurate with the nature of its business and the size and complexity
          of its operations.

          This ensures orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
          policies, safeguarding of its assets, prevention of errors, accuracy and completeness of the accounting
          records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information.

          Internal financial controls with reference to the financial statements were adequate and operating
          effectively.

          Corporate Governance
          Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, 2015, a separate chapter titled ‘Corporate Governance’ has been
          included in this Annual Report, along with the reports on Management Discussion and Analysis and
          General Shareholder Information.

          All Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of
          Conduct for 2021-22. A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director (CEO) of the Company
          is contained in this Annual Report.

          The Managing Director (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer have certified to the Board with regard
          to the financial statements and other matters as required under Regulation 17(8) of the
          Listing Regulations, 2015.




 84    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report




          Certificate from the auditors of the Company regarding compliance of conditions of corporate
          governance is annexed to this Report.

          Employee Stock Option Scheme
          The Company grants share-based benefits to eligible employees with a view to attracting and retaining
          talent, to encourage employees to align individual performance with the Company objectives and to
          promote their increased participation in the growth of the Company.

          During the year under review, there has been no change in the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
          Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) of the Company. BAL-ESOS 2019 is in compliance with SEBI
          (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, and this has been certified by the statutory
          auditors of the Company.

          In line with Regulation 14 of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, a statement
          giving complete details, as at 31 March 2022, is available on the website of the Company https://www.
          bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

          Details of options vested, exercised and cancelled are provided in the notes to the standalone
          financial statements.

          Business Responsibility Report
          Pursuant to the provisions of the Listing Regulations, 2015, a Business Responsibility Report (‘BRR’)
          has been hosted on the website and can be accessed at
          https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

          The BRR highlights the initiatives, actions and processes of the Company in conducting its business in
          line with its environmental, social and governance obligations.

          A copy of the BRR will be made available by email to any shareholder on request.

          Pursuant to amendment in the Listing Regulations, 2015, top 1,000 listed entities based on market
          capitalisation are required to submit a Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report with effect
          from the FY2023.

          Secretarial Standards of ICSI
          The Company has complied with the requirements prescribed under the Secretarial Standards on
          Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS–1) and General Meetings (SS–2) read with the MCA Circulars
          granting exemptions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.




 86    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                     Directors’ Report




Statutory Auditor
Pursuant to provisions of section 139 of the Act, the members at the annual general meeting of the
Company held on 20 July 2017 appointed S R B C & CO LLP (Firm Registration No. 324982E/E300003)
as statutory auditors of the Company from the conclusion of 10th annual general meeting till the
conclusion of 15th annual general meeting, covering one term of five consecutive years. The term
of appointment of the statutory auditors expires at the conclusion of ensuing annual general meeting.

The Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of the audit committee, at its meeting held on
27 April 2022, has proposed the re-appointment of S R B C & CO LLP (Firm Registration No. 324982E/
E300003) as statutory auditors of the Company for a further term of five years to hold office from the
conclusion of 15th annual general meeting till the conclusion of 20th annual general meeting, subject to
approval of the members and to fix their remuneration.

The statutory auditors have confirmed that they are not disqualified from continuing as auditors
of the Company.

The statutory audit report for the year 2021-22 does not contain any qualification, reservation or
adverse remark or disclaimer made by statutory auditor.

Secretarial Auditor
Pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Act and Rules made thereunder, the Company has
re-appointed, Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary (Membership No. 1587,
CP No. 572) to undertake the secretarial audit of the Company. Secretarial audit report for the year
2021-22 issued by him in the prescribed form MR-3 is annexed to this Report.

The secretarial audit report does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark or
disclaimer made by the secretarial auditor.

In addition to the above and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 8 February 2019, a report on secretarial
compliance by Shyamprasad D Limaye for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 has been submitted
with the stock exchanges. There are no observations, reservations or qualifications in that report.

On behalf of the Board of Directors,




Niraj Bajaj
Chairman
Pune: 27 April 2022




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited         87
Directors’ Report




          Annual Report on CSR activities
          1. Brief outline of Company’s CSR Policy


              Introduction
              The vision and philosophy of late Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the
              Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the group. He embodied the concept of
              trusteeship in business and common good and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based
              and transparent functioning.

              Bajaj Group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond
              balance sheets or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business
              and industry make to the lives of people.

              Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the
              vicinity of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
              conservation, infrastructure and community development and response to natural calamities.
              For society, however, Bajaj is more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment
              and the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.

              It is this goodwill that has made us “The World’s Favourite Indian!”


              Guiding principles
              The Bajaj Group believes that social investments should:

              l     Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
                    generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society
                    over long periods.
              l     Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
                    strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.
              l     Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education
                    and productivity.
              l     Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
                    to create excellence for self and for the team.
              l     Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it
                    has a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.
              l     Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
                    lowest rung irrespective of their religion, caste, language or colour.
              l     Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
                    adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.


              Brief contents of CSR Policy
              Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Companies (Corporate Social
              Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 have been amended substantially with effect from 22 January
              2021. Accordingly, the CSR Policy which was framed by the Company on 14 May 2014 got amended
              on 29 April 2021, with approvals of the CSR Committee and Board of Directors. The Policy, inter alia,
              covers the following:

              l     Philosophy, Approach & Direction
              l     Guiding Principles for selection, implementation and monitoring of activities
              l     Guiding Principles for formulation of Annual Action Plan




 88    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                         1                                              2



1. A child with deafblindness repeating       5. Farmer’s Cup training by Paani
   sign for water (Maharashtra)                  Foundation (Maharashtra)
2. Mobile Health Care Unit (Uttarakhand)      6. Covid care kit distribution at CCI-2
                                                 (Maharashtra)
3. Educational activity at Education Center
   (Ikhvelo) (Rajasthan)                      7. Kund-Rejunvenation in Mesar
                                                 (Uttarakhand)
4. Child friendly police station in Sirohi
   (Rajasthan)




                       3                                                                4




                      5                                 6                               7
Directors’ Report




          2. Composition of the CSR Committee



                                                           Designation/       Number of meetings    Number of meetings of
                                                           Nature of          of CSR Committee held CSR Committee attended
               Sr. No. Name of Director                    Directorship       during the year       during the year



                   1     Rajiv Bajaj                       Chairman                                                         3
                   2     Pradeep Shrivastava               Member                           4                               4
                   3     Dr. Naushad Forbes                Member                                                           4

          Notes:
          1.   Rahul Bajaj resigned as Chairman of the Company and as Chairman of CSR Committee on 30 April 2021 and was appointed
               as Chairman Emeritus of the Company w.e.f. 1 May 2021. He later expired on 12 February 2022.
          2.   Rajiv Bajaj, member of the Committee, was appointed as Chairman of the Committee by the Board at its meeting held
               on 29 April 2021 in place of Rahul Bajaj w.e.f. 1 May 2021.

          3. Web-link where composition of CSR                            https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes
             committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects
             approved by the Board are disclosed
             on the website of the Company

          4. Details of Impact assessment of CSR		                               Nil; since not applicable during the year.
             projects carried out in pursuance of
             sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies
             (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
             Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report)

          5. Details of the amount available for 			                                         As per table below.
             set-off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7
             of the Companies (Corporate Social
             Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount
             required for set-off for the financial year, if any

                                                                                                                                   (H in crore)

                                                           Amount available for set-off   Amount required to be set-off
               Sr. No. Financial Year                      from preceding financial years for the financial year, if any



                   1                           2020-21                                       1.34                                        1.34
                                                   Total                                     1.34                                        1.34
               Note: Figures for FY2018-19 & 2019-20 are not given as the law on set-off came into force from 22 January 2021 only.

          6. Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)                         H 6,397.71 crore

          7. (a) Two percent of average net profit of the company                            H 127.95 crore
          		 as per section 135(5)				                                                       H 128 crores (rounded off)

            (b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or		                                 Nil
          		 programmes or activities of the previous
                financial years

               (c) Amount required to be set-off for the			                                  H 1.34 crore		
                   financial year, if any

               (d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c)                    H 126.66 crore




 90    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                                                                  Directors’ Report




8. (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:

                                                                                  Amount Unspent (in H )
                                            Total Amount transferred to Unspent       Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule
                                             CSR Account as per section 135(6)              VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
   Total Amount Spent for the
   financial year (in H )                   Amount          Date of transfer         Name of the Fund       Amount                       Date of transfer



   H 75.66 crore                            H 51 crore       26 April 2022                              Nil; Not Applicable


   (b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
                                                                                                                                              Amount
                                                                                                                                         transferred
                                                                                                                        Amount            to Unspent                  Mode of implementation-
                                                                                                                        spent in        CSR Account                   Through Implementing
                            Item from                          Location of the project                     Amount            the               for the        Mode of Agency
                            the list of                                                                  allocated       current           project as         imple-
                            activities in                                                                   for the    financial         per Section          mentation             CSR
   Sr.   Name of the        Schedule to       Local area                                   Project          project         year               135(6)         - Direct              registration
   No.   Project            the Act           (Yes/No)      State         District         duration       (K in Cr.)   (K in Cr.)            (K in Cr.)       (Yes/No) Name         number



     1   Targeting the     Livelihood         Yes           Uttarakhand Udhamsingh         27 Months            9.20         2.40                         -      No   Bandhan-     CSR00001463
         hard-core poor by Project (ii)                                 Nagar                                                                                         Konnagar
         developing them
         as entrepreneurs
     2   To restore water Environment Yes                   Rajasthan & Jahazpur,          60 Months          27.00          4.00                         -      No   Foundation CSR0000637
         resources in     Sustainability                    Maharashtra Bhilwara,                                                                                     for Ecological
         water-scarce     (iv)                                          Udaipur,           Amended                                                                    Security
         and ecologically                                               Chittorgarh,       upto
         degraded dryland                                               Pratapgad,         31 March
         regions                                                        Yawatmal           2023


                                              No            Karnataka     Chickballapur,
                                                            & Andhra      Kolar,
                                                            Pradesh       Chittoor

     3   Integrated         Rural       Yes                 Maharashtra, Pune,             15 Months            9.51         4.00                         -      No   Jankidevi    CSR00001725
         rural and urban    Development                     Rajasthan & Aurangabad,                                                                                   Bajaj Gram
         developement       (x)                             Uttarakhand Wardha,                                                                                       Vikas Sastha
         programme                                                       Sikar and
                                                                         Udhamsingh
                                                                         Nagar
     4   Campaign against   Promoting         Yes           Maharashtra Multiple           14 Months            3.30         2.73                         -      No   Kailash      CSR00000883
         trafficking and    gender                          and                                                                                                       Satyarthi
         child rape/child   equality,                       Rajasthan                                                                                                 Children's
         friendly police    measures                                                                                                                                  Organization
         stations.          to reduce
                            inequalities
                            (iii)
     5   Vocational         Education (ii) Yes              Rajasthan & Sikar, Jaipur, 39 Months                6.17         3.95                         -      No   Lend a Hand CSR00004918
         educational                                        Uttarakhand Dehradun,                                                                                     India
         programme                                                      Udham Singh Amended
                                                                        Nagar          upto 31
                                                                                       March
                                                                                       2023
     6   Support towards     Education (ii) Yes             Maharashtra Wardha             36 Months          17.00          2.00                         -      No   Shiksha      CSR00016545
         Bajaj College of                                                                                                                                             Mandal
         Science, Wardha.
     7   AuroAgni -         Healthcare (i) No               Tamil Nadu    Puducherry       27 Months            4.90         2.75                         -      No   Sri          CSR00000200
         Global centre of                                                                                                                                             Aurobindo
         excellence for                                                                                                                                               Society
         Integral Yoga
     8   Fellowship and   Education (ii) Yes                Maharashtra Pune               36 Months            5.90         3.45                         -      No   Teach for    CSR00002271
         Beyond Classroom                                                                                                                                             India
     9   Bajaj Skilling     Education (ii) Yes              Maharashtra Pune,              24 Months          89.12                 -            51.00           No   Jankidevi    CSR00001725
         Project                                            and         Aurangabad                                                                                    Bajaj Gram
                                                            Rajasthan   and Tonk                                                                                      Vikas Sastha




                                                                                                                 15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                                   91
Directors’ Report




(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year: (Contd.)

                                                                                                                                              Amount
                                                                                                                                         transferred
                                                                                                                            Amount        to Unspent                      Mode of implementation-
                                                                                                                            spent in    CSR Account                       Through Implementing
                                 Item from                          Location of the project                  Amount              the           for the        Mode of     Agency
                                 the list of                                                               allocated         current       project as         imple-
                                 activities in                                                                for the      financial     per Section          mentation                  CSR
      Sr.     Name of the        Schedule to       Local area                                 Project         project           year           135(6)         - Direct                   registration
      No.     Project            the Act           (Yes/No)      State         District       duration      (K in Cr.)     (K in Cr.)        (K in Cr.)       (Yes/No) Name              number



       10 For different       Livelihood      For different locations in Maharashtra,         Various              94.08        22.71                     -       No      Bharatiya      Various
          projects such       enhancement Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and PAN India in             periods                                                                     Yuva Shakti    numbers
          as youth            (ii),           both local areas and elsewhere.                                                                                             trust, Room
          entrepreneurship Environment                                                                                                                                    to Read
          development         Sustainability                                                                                                                              India Trust,
          programme,          (iv), Education                                                                                                                             Shramjivi
          running room to (ii) etc.                                                                                                                                       Janata
          read’s literacy                                                                                                                                                 Sahayak
          program in                                                                                                                                                      Mandal,
          120 villages,                                                                                                                                                   CSEP
          Bajaj water                                                                                                                                                     Research
          conservation                                                                                                                                                    Foundation
          project, research                                                                                                                                               etc.
          program on
          financial sector
          and sub-national
          economic reforms
          etc. (expenditure
          on above project/
          transfer u/s 135(6)
          is below H 2 crore
          per project)
                                                                                                                   Total       47.99             51.00
      Note:
  1. The duration of a project is beyond a period of 36 months, only where the project was approved prior to 22 January 2021 i.e.,
		 the day when the new CSR Rules came into effect. The duration subsequently has been appropriately amended,
		 wherever required.


(c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:

                                                     Item from                                                                                  Mode of implementation - Through
                                                     the list of                     Location of the project           Amount          Mode of implementing agency
                                                     activities in                                                    spent for implementation
Sr.                                                  Schedule VII Local area                                        the project        - Direct                      CSR registration
No.    Name of the Project                           to the Act    (Yes/No)       State         District              (K in Cr.)      (Yes/No) Name                  number



 1     Covid Immunization for bottom of the          Healthcare (i) Yes           Maharashtra Pune                         19.40           No                 Jankidevi Bajaj Gram CSR00001725
       pyramid in Pune and Aurangabad                                                                                                                         Vikas Sanstha
 2     Vaccination Programme JBGVS-(KNB-             Healthcare (i) Yes           Maharashtra Pune                           2.52          No                 Jankidevi Bajaj Gram CSR00001725
       Serum Institute)                                                                                                                                       Vikas Sanstha
 3     4000 oxygen cylinders to Give India           Healthcare (i) No            Delhi         Delhi                        4.20          No                 Jankidevi Bajaj Gram CSR00001725
                                                                                                                                                              Vikas Sanstha
 4     For different projects such as             Healthcare (i), For different locations in Maharashtra,                  (1.46)          No                 Shiksha Mandal,      Various numbers
       construction of laboratory for physics and Education (ii), Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and PAN India in both                                                JBGVS, Akshay Patra
       chemistry, MissionVayu-50 Bipap and        Armed Forces local areas and elsewhere.                                                                     Foundation, Kendriya
       400 Oxygen Concentrators, Donation to      veterans (vi)                                                                                               Sainik Board [Armed
       Akshaya Patra Foundation, Donation to      etc.                                                                                                        Forces Flag Day
       Armed Forces Flag Day Fund – 2020 etc.                                                                                                                 Fund] etc.

       (expenditure on above projects is below
       H 2 crore per project is arrived at after
       adjustments towards refunds)
                                                                                                           Total           24.66




 92         Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                                            Directors’ Report




(d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads			                                                  H 3.01 crore

(e) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable		                                           Nil

(f) Total amount spent for the financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e)                                      H 75.66 crore
    (‘spent’ as clarified by MCA FAQ dated 25 August 2021)

(g) Amount transferred to Unspent CSR A/c 2021-22		                                              H 51.00 crore

(h) Excess amount for set-off, if any
                                                                                                                                                   (H in Crore)
Sr. No. Particulars                                                                                                                    Amount



      (i)         Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
                  (rounded off)                                                                                                            128.00
  (ii)            Total amount ‘spent’ for the Financial Year                                                                              75.66
  (iii)           Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]                                                                      –
  (iv)            Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the
                  previous financial years, if any                                                                                          1.34
  (v)             Amount available for set-off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]                                                   NA
  (vi)            Amount transferred to Unspent CSR A/c 2021-22                                                                            51.00

9. (a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: Not applicable

                                                                                  Amount transferred to any fund
                                                                                  specified under Schedule VII as
                                                                                     per section 135(6), if any
                             Amount transferred to         Amount spent in the                                             Amount remaining to be
Sr.         Preceding        Unspent CSR Account under     reporting Financial Name of         Amount         Date of      spent in succeeding financial
No.         Financial Year   section 135(6) (in K )        Year (in K)         the Fund        (in K)         transfer     years (in K)



 1          2018-19                       Nil                      Nil                  -           -             -                          -
 2          2019-20                       Nil                      Nil                  -           -             -                          -
 3          2020-21                       Nil                      Nil                  -           -             -                          -


(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):

                                                                                                                        Amount spent         Cumulative amount
                                                                                             Total amount               on the project         spent at the end          Status of
                                                 Financial Year in                           allocated for            in the reporting             of reporting          the project
Sr.                                              which the project                             the project             Financial Year           Financial Year           Completed/
No.         Project ID       Name of the Project was commenced Project duration                  (K in Cr.)                   (K in Cr.)               (K in Cr.)        Ongoing



 1          FY31.03.2021_23 Augmenting                   2017-18            60 Months                   27.00                       4.00                     23.85         Ongoing
                            conservation of
                            water for improving
                            resilience of                                Amended upto 31
                            agriculture in                                 March 2023
                            rainfed areas
 2          NA*              Integrated Rural and        2020-21            15 Months                    9.51                       4.00                          5.76     Ongoing
                             Urban Development
                             program 21-22
 3          FY31.03.2021_35 Incorporating Multi          2019-20            39 Months                   10.61                       3.95                          7.64     Ongoing
                            Skill Foundation
                            Course into School                           Amended upto 31
                            Curriculum (MSFC)                              March 2023
 4          NA*              Fellowship and              2019-20            36 Months                    5.90                       3.45                          3.45     Ongoing
                             Beyond Classroom
 5          FY31.03.2021_54 Bajaj Water                  2019-20            46 Months                   11.76                       3.11                          5.11     Ongoing
                            Conservation Project-
                            Phase-III                                     Amended upto
                                                                         September 2023


                                                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited                                       93
Directors’ Report




      (b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s) (Contd.):


                                                                                                           Amount spent       Cumulative amount
                                                                                        Total amount       on the project       spent at the end     Status of
                                                   Financial Year in                    allocated for    in the reporting           of reporting     the project
      Sr.                                          which the project                      the project     Financial Year         Financial Year      Completed/
      No.   Project ID         Name of the Project was commenced Project duration           (K in Cr.)           (K in Cr.)             (K in Cr.)   Ongoing



       6    FY31.03.2021_55 AuroAgni - Global            2019-20          29 Months               4.90                 2.75                   4.90    Completed
                            Centre of Excellence
                            for Integral Yoga
       7    NA*                Hostels and               2020-21          40 Months              17.00                 2.00                   3.00     Ongoing
                               residential quarters
                               at Shiksha Mandal's                    Amended upto 31
                               Bajaj Institute of                       March 2024
                               Technology, Wardha
       8    For different      For different projects         Various periods                    75.69                13.87                  51.03    Ongoing /
            projects –         such as Bhartiya Yuva                                                                                                  Completed
            (expenditure       Shakti Trust Youth
            project is below   Entrepreneurship
            H 2 crore per      Development Program,
            project)           Running Room to
                               Read's Literacy
                               Program in 120
                               villages, Bringing
                               Quality Healthcare to
                               Rural Kumaon, Support
                               for vaccination and
                               sterilization of stray
                               canines, Enhancing
                               Livelihood of Rural
                               Youth Through Skill
                               Training And Enterprise
                               Support etc.

                               (expenditure on above
                               projects is below
                               H 2 crore per project)
                                                                                                 Total               37.13
      Note: *These projects relate to projects commenced in 2020-21, but which got converted into ‘Ongoing Projects’ during the year 2021-22 and
      hence there are no corresponding Project IDs for these projects.

      10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or
          acquired through CSR spent in the financial year: Nil; Not Applicable

      11. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as per section 135(5):

            (a) Taking into account the commitments made by the company for the ongoing CSR projects/programs which
                are in progress and considering the project mode of CSR activity where the projects can extend beyond the
                financial year, there is no shortfall in the CSR expenditure mandated to be spent by the company during the
                financial year ended 31 March 2022.

            (b) Further, in light of the circular dated 25 August 2021 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) on the
                Frequently Asked Questions on CSR, mere disbursal of funds for implementation of a project does not
                amount to spending unless the implementing agency utilizes the whole amount.

            (c) As per provisions of section 135(6) of the Act, any amount remaining unspent under section 135(5)
                pursuant to any ongoing project shall be transferred by the company within a period of 30 days from the
                end of the financial year to a special account to be opened by the company. Accordingly, such amount has
                been transferred by the company to the specified account so opened within the prescribed period. As per
                the said circular of MCA, this amounts to meeting of the obligation and due compliance under section 135
                of the said Act.

      Rajiv Bajaj
      Managing Director & CEO and
      Chairman of CSR Committee

      Pune: 27 April 2022


 94     Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report




          Annexure to Directors' Report
          Remuneration Details under Rule 5 (1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
          Personnel) Rules, 2014 (as amended) for the year ended 31 March 2022

                                                                                                       Ratio of Remuneration
                                                                                                        of director to Median
                                                                                                             Remuneration of                        % increase in the
          Sr. No.       Name of Director/KMP                                                                      employees                            financial year


             (A)        Whole-time directors/Managerial Personnel
                        Rajiv Bajaj -Managing Director                                                                          570.07                                12.40
                        Pradeep Shrivastava - Executive Director                                                                117.85                                13.40
                        Rakesh Sharma - Executive Director                                                                      128.73                                26.49
                        Whole-time Directors in aggregate                                                                                                             14.56
             (B)        Non-executive directors1
                        Rahul Bajaj2                                                                                               0.31                                 0.00
                        Madhur Bajaj                                                                                               1.56                                 0.00
                        Sanjiv Bajaj                                                                                               1.56                                 0.00
                        Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                              1.56                                 0.00
                        D J Balaji Rao                                                                                             5.00                                 0.00
                        Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                2.50                               60.00
                        Dr. Gita Piramal                                                                                           3.44                              -15.38
                        Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                                         4.06                               18.18
                        Dr. Omkar Goswami3                                                                                         0.31                                 0.00
                        Anami N. Roy                                                                                               3.75                                 0.00
                        Pradip Shah                                                                                                1.25                              -20.00
                        Ms. Lila Poonawalla                                                                                        1.56                                 0.00
                        Abhinav Bindra                                                                                             1.56                               25.00
             (C)        Key Managerial Personnel
                        Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director                                                                                                                12.40
                        Soumen Ray, Ex-CFO4                                                                                                                             0.00
                        Dinesh Thapar, CFO5                                                                                                                             0.00
                        Dr. J Sridhar, Company Secretary                                                                                                              38.04
             (D)        Remuneration of Median Employee (other than whole-time directors)                                                                             18.87
             (E)        Permanent employees as on 31 March 20226 : 7,317


          1. (a) Remuneration payable to Non-executive directors is based on the number of meetings of the Board & its Committees attended by them as member during the year.
             (b) Remuneration to directors for the above purposes does not include sitting fees paid to them for attending board/committee meetings.
          2. Rahul Bajaj resigned as Non-executive director (Non-executive Chairman) of the Company on 30 April 2021 and was appointed as Chairman Emeritus of the Company
             w.e.f. 1 May 2021. He later expired on 12 February 2022 . Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
          3. Dr. Omkar Goswami resigned on 9 July 2021 and ceased to be a director of the Company w.e.f. 9 July 2021. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore
             not comparable/not applicable.
          4. Soumen Ray ceased to be CFO of the Company w.e.f. 21 December 2021. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
          5. Dinesh Thapar was appointed as CFO of the Company w.e.f. 15 March 2022. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
          6. The term ‘Permanent Employees’ does not include trainees, probationers and contract employees.

          Notes on Disclosures under Rule 5
          1. In FY 2021-22, the remuneration of median employee other than whole-time Directors increased
             by 18.87% over the previous year.
          2. Increase in the remuneration of the WTDs/Managerial Personnel, which in the aggregate was
             14.56% during the year under review, was given, keeping in view the trends of remuneration
             in industry.
          3. The remuneration paid as above was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.




 96    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                  Directors’ Report




Secretarial Audit Report (Form No. MR-3)
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]

For the financial year ended 31 March 2022.


To,
The Members,
Bajaj Auto Ltd.
(CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
Mumbai-Pune Road,
Akurdi, Pune-411035.

I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the
adherence to good corporate practices by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter called as ‘The Company’).
Subject to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by Covid-19 Pandemic,
while taking review for the financial year, the Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that
provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and
expressing my opinion thereon.

Based on my verification of the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and
authorised representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, and subject to letter annexed
herewith, I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the
financial year ended on 31 March 2022, complied with the applicable statutory provisions listed
hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in
place subject to the reporting made hereinafter:

I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
by the Company for the financial year ended on 31 March 2022, according to the provisions of:

1) The Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and the rules made thereunder;

2) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;

3) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;

4) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder
   to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External
   Commercial Borrowings;

5) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board
   of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) to the extent applicable:-

   (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
       Regulations, 2011;

   (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;

   (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
       Regulations, 2018;

   (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;
       and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat
       Equity) Regulations, 2021;




                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited       97
Directors’ Report




              (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations,
                  2008 and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible
                  Securities) Regulations, 2021;

              (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)
                  Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;

              (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 and
                  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;

              (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998 and
                  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; and

              (i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                  Regulations, 2015.

          6) Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 to the extent of product certification before production and from time to
             time primarily in respect of vehicles manufactured by the Company.

          I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:-

              (i) Secretarial Standards pursuant to section 118(10) of the Act, issued by the Institute of Company
                  Secretaries of India.

              (ii) Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Ltd. and National Stock
                   Exchange of India Ltd. as per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                   Regulations, 2015.

          During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, rules,
          regulations, guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above.

          I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of
          executive directors, non-executive directors and independent directors including a woman independent
          director. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period
          under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.

          Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings including Committees
          thereof, along with agenda and detailed notes on agenda at least seven days in advance and a system
          exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the
          meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting by the directors. The decisions at the meeting
          were carried unanimously.

          I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the
          size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,
          regulations and guidelines.

          I further report that during the audit period, there was no other event/action having major bearing on
          affairs of the Company.




          															Shyamprasad D Limaye
          Pune: 27 April 2022												FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
          UDIN: F001587D000215823




 98    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report




          ANNEXURE
          To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
          Mumbai-Pune Road,
          Akurdi, Pune-411035.


          My Secretarial Audit Report for Financial Year ended on 31 March 2022 of even date is to be read along
          with this letter.

          1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
             My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.

          2. I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable
             assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was
             done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the
             process and practices, I followed, provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.

          3. I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts
             of the Company.

          4. Wherever required, I have obtained the management representation about the compliance of laws,
             rules and regulations and happening of event etc.

          5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations,
             standards is the responsibility of management. My examination was limited to the verification
             of procedures on test basis.

          6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of
             the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

          Pune: 27 April 2022

          Shyamprasad D. Limaye
          FCS No. 1587
          C P No.: 572




100    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                       Directors’ Report




Independent Auditors’ Report on compliance with
the conditions of Corporate Governance
[As per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended]

To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Mumbai–Pune Road,
Akurdi, Pune-411 035.

1. The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter the “Company”),
   contains details as specified in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub – regulation (2)
   of regulation 46 and para C, D, and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
   (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (“the Listing
   Regulations”) (‘Applicable criteria’) for the year ended 31 March 2022 as required by the Company
   for annual submission to the Stock exchange.

Management’s responsibility

2. The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of
   the Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and
   documents. This responsibility also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
   internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Governance Report.

3. The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the
   Company complies with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing
   Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.

Auditors’ responsibility

4. Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to provide a
   reasonable assurance in the form of an opinion whether, the Company has complied with the
   conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations referred to in
   paragraph 1 above.

5. We conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the
   Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes and the Guidance Note on
   Certification of Corporate Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
   (“ICAI”). The Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes requires that we comply
   with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by ICAI.

6. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control
   (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial
   Information and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.

7. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the risks
   associated in compliance of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria. Summary
   of procedures performed include:

   i.   Read and understood the information prepared by the Company and included in its Corporate
        Governance Report;

   ii. Obtained and verified that the composition of the Board of Directors with respect to executive
       and non-executive directors has been met throughout the reporting period;

   iii. Obtained and read the Register of Directors as on 31 March 2022 and verified that at least one
        independent woman director was on the Board of Directors throughout the year;




                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited         101
Directors’ Report




              iv. Obtained and read the minutes of the following committee meetings/other meetings held from
                  1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022:

          		 (a) Board of Directors;
          		(b) Audit Committee;
          		 (c) Annual General Meeting (AGM);
          		 (d) Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
          		 (e) Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee;
          		 (f) Risk Management Committee;
          		 (g) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee;
          		 (h) Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee.

              v. Obtained necessary declarations from the directors of the Company.

              vi. Obtained and read the policy adopted by the Company for related party transactions.

              vii. Obtained the schedule of related party transactions during the year and balances at the year
                   end. Obtained and read the minutes of the audit committee meeting where in such related party
                   transactions have been pre-approved prior by the audit committee.

              viii. Performed necessary inquiries with the management and also obtained necessary specific
                    representations from management.

          8. The above-mentioned procedures include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the
             Corporate Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope of work under this report did not
             involve us performing audit tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the fairness
             or accuracy of any of the financial information or the financial statements of the Company taken
             as a whole.

          Opinion

          9. Based on the procedures performed by us, as referred in paragraph 7 above, and according to the
             information and explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with
             the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations, as applicable for the
             year ended 31 March 2022, referred to in paragraph 4 above.

          Other matters and Restriction on Use

          10. This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or
              effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

          11. This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of
              enabling it to comply with its obligations under the Listing Regulations with reference to compliance
              with the relevant regulations of Corporate Governance and should not be used by any other person
              or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care
              or for any other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may come
              without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this report for events and
              circumstances occurring after the date of this report.

          For S R B C & CO LLP
          Chartered Accountants
          ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003


          per Arvind Sethi
          Partner
          Membership Number: 089802
          UDIN: 22089802AHWJVM5387

          Pune: 27 April 2022


102    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
Directors’ Report




          Declaration by Chief Executive Officer (MD)
          [Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V (Part D) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
          Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]


          I, Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO of Bajaj Auto Ltd. hereby declare that all the members of
          Board of Directors and Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of
          Board of Directors and Senior Management of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2022.

          Rajiv Bajaj
          Managing Director and CEO

          Pune: 27 April 2022



          Certificate by Practising Company Secretary
          [Pursuant to Schedule V read with Regulation 34(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 (as amended)]

          In the matter of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076) having its registered office at
          Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune-411035.

          On the basis of examination of the books, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
          maintained by the Company and declarations made by the directors and explanations given by the
          Company and subject to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by Covid 19
          pandemic.

          I certify that the following persons are directors of the Company (during 01/04/2021 to 31/03/2022)
          and none of them have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of
          companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.

          Sr. No. Name of Director                                                    DIN           Designation


              1      Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                                00028261          Non-Executive Chairman
             2       Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                               00014593          Non-Executive Vice Chairman
             3       Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                                  00018262          Managing Director
             4       Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                                 00014615          Non-Executive Director
             5       Shekhar Bajaj                                                00089358          Non-Executive Director
             6       Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton                              00025254          Independent Director
             7       Gita Piramal                                                 01080602          Independent Director
             8       Pradeep Shrivastava                                          07464437          Executive Director
             9       Naushad Darius Forbes                                        00630825          Independent Director
             10      Anami Narayan Prema Roy                                      01361110          Independent Director
             11      Rakesh Sharma                                                08262670          Executive Director
             12      Pradip Panalal Shah                                          00066242          Independent Director
             13      Lila Firoz Poonawalla                                        00074392          Independent Director
             14      Abhinav Bindra                                               00929250          Independent Director
          Notes:
          1. Rahul Bajaj resigned as Non-executive director (Non-executive Chairman) of the Company on 30 April 2021 and was appointed
             as Chairman Emeritus of the Company w.e.f. 1 May 2021. He later expired on 12 February 2022.
          2. Dr. Omkar Goswami resigned on 9 July 2021 and ceased to be a director of the Company w.e.f. 9 July 2021.


          															Shyamprasad D Limaye
          Pune: 27 April 2022												FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
          UDIN: F001587D000215845


104    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
STANDALONE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Standalone Financial Statements • Audit Report




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements
To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’), which comprise the Balance
Sheet as at 31 March 2022, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash
Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended and notes to the Standalone financial statements,
including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (the ‘Act’) in the manner so required and give
a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company
as at 31 March 2022, its profit including other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended
on that date.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the
‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone financial statements.

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2022. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
standalone financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled
the responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of our
report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements. The results of our audit procedures,
including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying
standalone financial statements.

Key audit matters                                                 How our audit addressed the key audit matter

Accounting for income from government grants (as described in Note 29 of the standalone financial statements)
The Company is entitled to an Industrial Promotion Subsidy, an    Our audit procedures included the following:
incentive, amounting to H 533.50 crore under a Package            l   Obtained and read the eligibility certificate received by the Company from
Scheme of Incentives of the Government of Maharashtra based           the Directorate of Industries, the Government of Maharashtra.
on the eligible capital investments made from 1 April 2012 to
                                                                  l   Read the terms and conditions of the Scheme issued by the Government
31 March 2017. Validity period to claim incentive under the
                                                                      of Maharashtra and the compliance to those conditions.
scheme is from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2024.
                                                                     l Obtained and tested the computation of Grant income prepared by
The Company has recognised the incentive (‘Grant income’)              Management.
amounting to H 30.50 crore for the year 2021-22 in Other
                                                                     l Assessed and tested the compliance in relation to recognition of income in
Operating Income and H 315.28 crore for years 2015-16 to
                                                                       accordance with Ind AS.
2020-21 as exceptional item in the Statement of Profit and Loss
based on fulfillment of eligibility conditions. This transaction had l Assessed the disclosures in the financial statements for compliance with
a significant effect on the financial statements for the year and      relevant standards.
hence is considered as key audit matter.                             l Obtained Management representation in regard to the recognition and

                                                                       disclosures in respect of the Grant income.

We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.




106       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                           Audit Report • Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Other information

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included
in the Chairman’s letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not include the
standalone financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and in
doing so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude
that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in
this regard.

Responsibilities of Management for the standalone financial statements

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of
these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including other
comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates
that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that
were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

In preparing the standalone financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
Management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone
financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:

l   Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
    design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
    provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
    resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
    internal control.

l   Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
    circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company
    has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of
    such controls.




                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         107
Standalone Financial Statements • Audit Report




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
l   Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
    disclosures made by Management.

l   Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence
    obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s
    ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in
    our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
    opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events
    or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

l   Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures,
    and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
    fair presentation.

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

1. As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2020 (the ‘Order’), issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
   sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit we give in the Annexure 1 a statement on the matters specified in
   paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.

2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:

    (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
        necessary for the purposes of our audit;

    (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
        examination of those books;

    (c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow
        Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;

    (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
        section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

    (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2022 taken on record by the
        Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2022 from being appointed as a director in terms of
        section 164 (2) of the Act;

    (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements and the
        operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in Annexure 2 to this report;

    (g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2022 has been paid/provided by the Company to its
        directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;




108     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                           Audit Report • Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
   (h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit
       and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
       given to us:

      i.   The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements
           – Refer Note 35 to the standalone financial statements;

      ii. The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
          foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 33 to the standalone
          financial statements;

      iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
           Fund by the Company.

      iv. (a) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been advanced or loaned
              or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds by the Company to or
              in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded
              in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or
              entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any
              guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;

           (b) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been received by the
               Company from any person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the understanding, whether
               recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons
               or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
               provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and

           (c) Based on such audit procedures that were considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing has
               come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any
               material misstatement.

      v. The final dividend proposed by the Board of directors for the year ended 31 March 2021 and paid during the current year
         by the Company is in compliance with section 123 of the Act.

           As stated in Note 34(b) to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company have proposed
           final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2022, which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual
           General Meeting. The amount of dividend proposed is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent applicable.



For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 22089802AHWJOJ3347
Pune: 27 April 2022




                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited        109
Standalone Financial Statements • Audit Report




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report of
even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and records examined
by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:

i.     (a)   (A)   The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of
                   property, plant and equipment.

             (B)   The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangibles assets.

       (b)   Property, plant and equipment have been physically verified by Management in accordance with a planned program of
             verifying them once in three years which, in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the
             nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.

       (c)   The title deeds of all immovable properties included in property, plant and equipment; and investment property (other
             than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) are
             held in the name of the Company.

       (d)   The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the year ended 31 March
             2022. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(i)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (e)   Based on the information and explanations given to us, there are no proceedings initiated or pending against the Company
             for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made
             thereunder. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(i)(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

ii.    (a)   The inventory has been physically verified by Management during the year except for inventories lying with third parties.
             Discrepancies of 10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory were not noticed during such verification. In our
             opinion, the frequency of verification by Management is reasonable and the coverage and procedure for such verification
             is appropriate. Inventories lying with third parties have been confirmed by them as at 31 March 2022 and discrepancies of
             10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory were not noticed in respect of such confirmations.

       (b)   Based on the information and explanations given by Management, the Company has not been sanctioned any working
             capital limits on the basis of security of current assets from banks or financial institutions during any point of time of the
             year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

iii.   (a)   During the year the Company has not provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee or provided
             security to any other entity, other than to its employees as follows:
             Particulars                                                                                     Loans to employees (J in Crore)


             Aggregate amount granted during the year                                                        4.06
             Balance outstanding as at Balance Sheet date                                                    8.10


             Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(a)(A) and (B) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.

       (b)   During the year the investments made and the terms and conditions of the grant of all loans and advances in the nature
             of loans to its employees are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest. Since, the Company has not provided loans,
             advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee or provided security to any other entity, other than to its employees, the
             requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(b), 3(iii)(c), 3(iii)(d), 3(iii)(e) and 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable in respect of any
             entity other than employees.

       (c)   The Company has granted loans and advances in the nature of loans during the year to its employees where the schedule
             of repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and the repayment/receipts are regular.

       (d)   In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to employees during the year, there are no amounts
             overdue for more than ninety days. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(d) in respect of employees is
             not applicable.




110      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                Audit Report • Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
       (e)   In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to employees, there were no amounts which have fallen due
             during the year, that have been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle the overdues of existing loans given to
             the same employees. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(e) in respect of employees is not applicable.

       (f)   In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to employees, there were no amounts granted which were
             either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment. Accordingly, the requirement to
             report on clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

iv.    The Company has not advanced any loans, guarantees or security to any entity covered by the provisions of section 185 and
       section 186 of the Companies Act 2013. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iv) of the Order is not applicable to
       the Company in respect of section 185 and section 186 of the Companies Act 2013, pertaining to these transactions. In respect
       of investments made, the Company has complied with the provisions of section 186 of the Companies Act 2013.

v.     The Company has neither accepted any deposits from the public nor accepted any amounts which are deemed to be deposits
       within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Companies Act and the rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable.
       Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

vi.    The Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act for the products of
       the Company.

vii.   (a)   The Company is regular in depositing with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues including goods and services
             tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income tax, sales tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value
             added tax, cess and other statutory dues wherever applicable. According to the information and explanations given to us
             and based on audit procedures performed by us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of these statutory dues were
             outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.

       (b)   The dues of goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty
             of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and other statutory dues wherever applicable, and which have not been
             deposited on account of any dispute, are as follows:
             Name of                                               Amount Period to which the                                   Forum where the
             the statute            Nature of dues             (J In Crore) amount relates                                      dispute is pending



                                    Excise Duty                      327.48 Various years from 2010-11 to 2016-17 Supreme Court
                                    Excise Duty                         1.43 Various years from 1985-86 to 2001-02 High Court
             The Central
             Excise Act, 1944       Excise Duty                         1.37 Various years from 1983-84 to 2014-15 Custom Excise and Service Tax
                                                                                                                   Appellate Tribunal
                                    Excise Duty                         0.42 Various years from 1991-92 to 2017-18 Commissioner Appeals
             Finance Act,           National Calamity                342.00 Various years from 2007-08 to 2014-15 Supreme Court
             2001                   Contingent Duty

             Central Sales          Sales Tax                           0.99 Various years from 1996-97 to 2001-02 High Court
             Tax Act, 1956          Sales Tax                         99.66 Various years from 2001-02 to 2010-11 Appellate Tribunal
             and Sales Tax
             Act of various         Sales Tax                           0.25 Financial year 2009-10                             Appellate Authority
             States                 Sales Tax                         53.04 Various years from 1999-00 to 2016-17 Appellate Authority
                                    Income Tax                       502.01 Various years from 2007-08 to 2011-12 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
             The Income Tax
             Act, 1961              Income Tax                        88.83 Various years from 2012-13 to 2018-19 Commissioner of Income Tax
                                                                                                                  (Appeals)
                                    Customs Duty                        3.85 Financial year 1984-85 and 1985-86                 High Court
             The Customs
             Act, 1962              Customs Duty                        5.50 Various years from 1977-78 to 2013-14 Assistant Commissioner
                                                                                                                   of Customs
                                    Octroi Duty                        8.44 Various years from 1988-89 to 2004-05 High Court
             Octroi                                                         and from 2012-13 to 2016-17
                                    Octroi Duty                         4.23 Various years from 1981-82 to 1988-89 District Court

		       Note: The amounts disclosed above are net of the payments made to the respective authorities where the dispute is pending.




                                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited            111
Standalone Financial Statements • Audit Report




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
viii. The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of account, in the tax
      assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(viii)
      of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

ix.    (a)/(c)
              The Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans (sales tax deferral) to any lender during the year. Further, the
              Company did not have any term loans or interest due to any lender during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report
              on clause 3(ix)(a) and 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (b)     Based on the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not been declared willful defaulter by any bank
               or financial institution or government or any government authority.

       (d)     The Company has not raised any funds on short-term basis during the year hence, the requirement to report on clause
               3(ix)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (e)     On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds from any
               entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries or associates. The Company did not have any
               joint ventures during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable to
               the Company.

       (f)     The Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries or associate
               companies. The Company did not have any joint ventures during the year. Hence, the requirement to report on clause (ix)
               (f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

x.     (a)     The Company has not raised any money during the year by way of further public offer (including debt instruments).
               Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (b)     The Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or convertible debentures
               (fully, partially or optionally convertible) during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(b) of the
               order is not applicable to the Company.

xi.    (a)     No fraud by the Company or no material fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year. Accordingly,
               the requirement to report on clause 3(xi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (b)     During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been filed by us in Form
               ADT–4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.

       (c)     We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while
               determining the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures.

xii.   The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Therefore, the requirements to report
       on Clause 3(xii)(a), 3(xii)(b) and 3(xii)(c) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.

xiii. Transactions with the related parties are in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013 where applicable
      and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, as required by the applicable accounting standards.

xiv. (a)       The Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.

       (b)     The internal audit reports of the Company issued till the date of the audit report, for the period under audit have been
               considered by us.

xv.    The Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons connected with its directors and
       accordingly the requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

xvi. (a)/(b)/(c)
           The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable to the Company.
           Further, the Company has not conducted any Non-Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities and is not a Core
           Investment Company as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, the requirement to report
           on clause 3(xvi)(a), 3 (xvi)(b) and 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.




112          Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                            Audit Report • Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
      (d)   In our opinion, and according to the information and explanation given to us, in the Group (in accordance with Core
            Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) there are 16 companies forming part of the Group of the
            Company which are CICs (These are unregistered CICs as per Para 8.1/9.1 of Notification No. RBI/2020-21/24 dated
            13 August 2020 of the Reserve Bank of India).

xvii. The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current year and immediately preceding financial year respectively.
      Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

xviii. There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly requirement to report on Clause 3(xviii)
       of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

xix. On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 42 to the financial statements, ageing and expected dates of realization of
     financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the financial statements, our knowledge
     of the Board of Directors and Management plans and based on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions,
     nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit
     report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall
     due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future
     viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we
     neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet
     date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.

xx.   (a)   In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a fund
            specified in Schedule VII of the Act, in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 of section 135 of the Act. This
            matter has been disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements.

      (b)   All amounts that are unspent under section (5) of section 135 of Companies Act, pursuant to any ongoing project, has
            been transferred to special account in compliance of with provisions of sub section (6) of section 135 of the said Act. This
            matter has been disclosed in Note 28 to the financial statements.



For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 22089802AHWJOJ3347
Pune: 27 April 2022




                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          113
Standalone Financial Statements • Audit Report




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report
of even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the internal financial controls under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 of the companies act, 2013 (the ‘Act’)

We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) as
of 31 March 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.

Management’s responsibility for internal financial controls

The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Auditors’ responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls
Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate
internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements were established and maintained and if such
controls operated effectively in all material respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
reference to these standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to
these standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements.

Meaning of internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements

A company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
    the assets of the company;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
    only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.




114     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                           Audit Report • Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur
and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to standalone financial
statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial
statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were operating effectively as at
31 March 2022, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.



For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 22089802AHWJOJ3347
Pune: 27 April 2022




                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          115
Standalone Financial Statements • Balance Sheet




Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                          As at 31 March

Particulars                                                Note No.       2022               2021



ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment                                 2         1,757.57       1,565.33
Capital work-in-progress                                      2           76.82              15.98
Investment property                                           3            51.13             52.30
Intangible assets                                             4           25.32              47.30
Intangible assets under development                           4               –                  –
Investments in subsidiaries                                  5A        1,248.43        1,233.26
Financial assets
   Investments                                               5B        17,601.20      13,369.58
   Trade receivables                                         10               –                  –
   Loans                                                      6            4.57               5.22
   Other financial assets                                     7           61.39              26.21
Income tax assets (net)                                                  749.24             714.81
Other non-current assets                                      8          351.80             325.08
                                                                      21,927.47      17,355.07


Current assets
Inventories                                                   9        1,230.51        1,493.89
Financial assets
   Investments                                               5B         4,969.13           8,028.11
   Trade receivables                                         10         1,516.38       2,716.85
   Cash and cash equivalents                                 11          563.97             505.13
   Other bank balances                                       12           24.37              22.23
   Loans                                                      6             4.17               5.74
   Other financial assets                                     7          596.26             223.53
Other current assets                                          8        1,089.68            1,179.65
                                                                       9,994.47      14,175.13
                                                                      31,921.94      31,530.20




116      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                  Balance Sheet • Standalone Financial Statements




Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                            Note No.             2022              2021



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                      13               289.37            289.37
Other equity                                                                                              14            26,379.43        24,912.89
                                                                                                                       26,668.80         25,202.26


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                                    15               122.77            121.46
Provisions                                                                                                16                 1.30              1.98
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                            17               403.33            522.14
Government grant                                                                                                            36.00             38.65
Other non-current liabilities                                                                             18                 0.30              0.50
                                                                                                                          563.70             684.73


Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
		       Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                19               150.64            121.20
		       Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises           19             3,482.54         4,452.61
    Other financial liabilities                                                                           20               397.00            407.44
Other current liabilities                                                                                 21               478.71            482.79
Provisions                                                                                                16               153.75            152.37
Government grant                                                                                                             2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                               24.15             24.15
                                                                                                                        4,689.44          5,643.21
                                                                                                                       31,921.94         31,530.20
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                         1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
As per our report of even date                                                                                 On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                           Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                           Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                Dinesh Thapar                                             Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                                   Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                            Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                           Company Secretary                                          Vice Chairman




                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited              117
Standalone Financial Statements • Statement of Profit and Loss




Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2022             2021



Revenue from contracts with customers                                                      32,135.98        27,132.90
Other operating revenue                                                                     1,008.73           608.18
Revenue from operations                                                         22         33,144.71        27,741.08
Other income                                                                    23          1,209.24         1,276.46
Total income                                                                              34,353.95        29,017.54


Expenses
Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              22,169.88       18,308.09
Purchase of traded goods                                                                     1,971.98        1,521.04
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     24             187.96         (219.48)
Employee benefits expense                                                       25          1,358.80         1,285.96
Finance costs                                                                   26               8.66             6.66
Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           27             269.17          259.28
Other expenses                                                                  28          2,210.76         1,929.26
Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (13.31)          (12.27)
Total expenses                                                                            28,163.90        23,078.54


Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     6,190.05        5,939.00


Exceptional items                                                               29           (315.28)                  –


Profit before tax                                                                           6,505.33        5,939.00


Tax expense
    Current tax                                                                              1,667.11        1,348.10
    Deferred tax                                                                             (180.65)            36.31
Total tax expense                                                               30          1,486.46         1,384.41


Profit for the year                                                                        5,018.87         4,554.59




118     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Statement of Profit and Loss • Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                       Note No.              2022             2021



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                                   17.94            16.33
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                (4.52)            (4.11)
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                                605.59           567.27
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                (67.61)         (65.71)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                                        (40.87)          276.65
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                10.29           (69.63)


Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)                                                                  520.82           720.80


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                             5,539.69        5,275.39


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                                          31                173.6             157.5
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                    1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
As per our report of even date                                                                            On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                      Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                      Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                              Dinesh Thapar                                          Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                           Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                     Dr. J Sridhar                                         Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                         Company Secretary                                       Vice Chairman




                                                                                15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           119
Standalone Financial Statements • Statement of Changes in Equity




Statement Of Changes In Equity
A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                            For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                             Note No.                       2022                  2021



At the beginning of the year                                                                                                                                                      289.37                   289.37
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors                                                                                                                                –                        –
Restated balance at the beginning of the current reporting period                                                                                                                 289.37                   289.37
Changes in equity share capital during the year                                                                                                                                           –                        –
At the end of the year                                                                                                                                     13                    289.37                    289.37



B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     Reserves and surplus                               Other reserves
                                                                                                                                 Cash flow   Costs of                    Share based
                                                                                         Note          General       Retained     hedging    hedging         FVTOCI        payments      Treasury        Total other
Particulars                                                                               No.          reserve       earnings      reserve   reserve        reserve          reserve       shares             equity



Balance as at 31 March 2020                                                              14           5,431.60      14,750.44         5.63   (121.81)       (413.13)           10.01          (26.62)     19,636.12


Profit for the year                                                                                             –    4,554.59           –          –               –              –                –        4,554.59
Recognition of share based payments to employees                                                                –           –           –          –               –            6.90               –            6.90
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                         –       12.22       143.27     63.75          501.56              –                –          720.80
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2021                                                     –    4,566.81       143.27     63.75          501.56            6.90               –        5,282.29


Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                                                       456.00      (456.00)           –          –               –              –                –               –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                                                              –           –           –          –               –              –            (5.52)          (5.52)


Balance as at 31 March 2021                                                              14           5,887.60      18,861.25      148.90     (58.06)           88.43          16.91          (32.14)     24,912.89


Profit for the year                                                                                             –    5,018.87           –          –               –               –               –        5,018.87
Recognition of share based payments to employees                                                                –           –           –          –               –           15.36               –           15.36
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                         –       13.42      (94.57)     63.99          537.98               –               –          520.82
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2022                                                     –    5,032.29      (94.57)     63.99          537.98           15.36               –        5,555.05


Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                                                       502.00      (502.00)           –          –               –               –               –               –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                                                              –           –           –          –               –               –          (37.37)         (37.37)
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2021                                                                 –   (4,051.14)          –          –               –               –               –       (4,051.14)


Balance as at 31 March 2022                                                              14           6,389.60      19,340.40       54.33       5.93         626.41            32.27      (69.51)         26,379.43
Note: There are no changes in accounting policies or prior period errors during the current or previous year.

Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                        1

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
As per our report of even date                                                                                                                                    On behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                                                                             Niraj Bajaj
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                                                                                    Chairman

                                                                                                         Dinesh Thapar                                                          Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                                                                      Chief Financial Officer                                                Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                                                                 Dr. J Sridhar                                                        Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                                                                     Company Secretary                                                      Vice Chairman



120           Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                      Statement of Cash Flows • Standalone Financial Statements




Statement Of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                       2022                            2021



I.   Operating activities
        Profit before tax                                                                                  6,505.33                        5,939.00
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
          i) Depreciation and amortisation                                                    269.17                          259.28
          ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
              discarded and scrapped                                                            8.88                           13.10
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                       (4.44)                           16.15
         iv) Share based payment to employees                                                  15.36                            6.90
          v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                                (3.55)                            1.19
         vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                          2.39                           (6.01)
         vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                           3.64                            0.10
        viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                           1.31                            1.18
         ix) Interest expense                                                                   7.35                            5.48
                                                                                                             300.11                          297.37
        Less:
          i) Investment income included in above:
                 Interest income on fixed income securities                                  275.05                            65.77
                 Interest income on fixed deposits                                            36.42                            17.87
                 Interest income on exchange traded funds                                    204.68                            76.85
                 Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                     388.93                          842.51
                 Profit on sale of other investments, net                                      35.72                           15.74
                 Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured
                 at fair value through profit or loss                                        188.75                          254.25
                 Dividend income on other strategic investments                               45.50                                   –
                 Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of fixed
                 income securities                                                            (17.67)                          (5.57)
                                                                                            1,157.38                        1,267.42
          ii) Government grants                                                                 2.65                            2.65
         iii) Exceptional item - PSI Scheme                                                  315.28                                   –
         iv) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                  21.59                            1.94
                                                                                                          (1,496.90)                      (1,272.01)
                                                                                                           5,308.54                        4,964.36
        Change in assets and liabilities
          i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                              263.38                         (430.39)
          ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                                      1,202.52                      (1,001.89)
         iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                                    77.19                        (561.50)
         iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                              (942.20)                       1,483.32
                                                                                                             600.89                         (510.46)
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                   (0.32)                          (0.35)
        Net cash flow from operating activities before income-tax                                          5,909.11                        4,453.55
              Income-tax paid                                                                             (1,701.54)                      (1,339.69)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                                 4,207.57                        3,113.86


                                                                    Carried forward                        4,207.57                        3,113.86




                                                                                 15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                121
Standalone Financial Statements • Statement of Cash Flows




Statement Of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                2022                            2021



               Brought forward                                                                      4,207.57                         3,113.86
II. Investing activities
        i)     Investment in subsidiary                                                (15.17)                                 –
        ii) Sale of investments                                                     11,526.59                        3,555.72
        iii) Purchase of investments                                               (11,083.79)                     (5,888.39)
        iv) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                        (209.44)                        (351.28)
        v) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                                 (37.37)                          (5.52)
        vi) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                  (2.14)                           8.71
        vii) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)          (550.67)                        (241.04)
        viii) Sale proceeds of property plant and equipment                             33.07                            5.70
        ix) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                        –                          (15.53)
                                                                                     (338.92)                      (2,931.63)
             x) Investment income
               Interest income on fixed income securities                              275.05                           65.77
               Interest income on fixed deposits                                        36.42                           17.87
               Dividend income on other strategic investments                           45.50                                  –
                                                                                       356.97                           83.64
        (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                                    (114.00)                         (17.36)
                                                                                       242.97                           66.28


        Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                            (95.95)                       (2,865.35)


                                                                 Carried forward                     4,111.62                         248.51




122     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                       Statement of Cash Flows • Standalone Financial Statements




Statement Of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                        2022                            2021



                                                                  Brought forward                            4,111.62                         248.51
III. Financing activities
          i) Interest expense                                                                   (7.35)                          (5.48)
         ii) Change in sales tax deferral liability due to assessment                               –                           (5.31)
         iii) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                                    (4,048.98)                           (8.73)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                 (4,056.33)                         (19.52)


        Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                                55.29                          228.99


        Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                                505.13                          277.33
        Add/(Less): Effects of exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                                3.55                            (1.19)
        Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                                        563.97                          505.13



As per our report of even date                                                                                  On behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                        Niraj Bajaj
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                               Chairman

                                                                Dinesh Thapar                                              Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                                    Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                             Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                           Company Secretary                                           Vice Chairman




                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                123
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022

Corporate information

Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged
in the business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles,
electric two-wheelers etc. and parts thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets.
The registered office of the Company is located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

The standalone financial statements were approved for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the
Company on 27 April 2022.

1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company

Basis of preparation

These standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,
as amended from time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
(including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value or amortised book value.

The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as 12
months for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

Significant accounting policies

This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

1   Use of estimates, judgments and assumptions

    Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of these financial statements and disclosures made therein are based upon
    Management’s evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements, which may differ
    from the actual results at a subsequent date. The following are items which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to
    estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than those originally assessed. Detailed information about each of these
    estimates is included in the relevant notes together with information about basis of calculation for each affected line item in the
    financial statements:

    a)   Estimation of fair value of derivative instruments
    b)   Estimation of variable considerations in revenue
    c)   Provision for warranties
    d)   Provision for employee benefits
    e)   Provision for tax expenses
    f)   Residual value and useful life of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets
    g)   Valuation of investments
    h)   Inventory provisioning
    i)   Provision for bad and doubtful debts

2   Revenue from contracts with customers

    Revenue is recognised when control of goods (vehicles or parts) and services have been transferred to the customer; at an
    amount that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The
    timing of when the Company transfers the goods or provide services may differ from the timing of the customer’s payment.
    Amounts disclosed as revenue are net of goods and service tax (GST).




124      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                         Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
  The Company has generally concluded that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements, except for the agency services below
  (in respect of freight), because it typically controls the goods or services before transferring them to the customer.

  The disclosures of significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to revenue from contracts with
  customers are provided below:

  Sale of goods (vehicles or parts)

  The Company has determined that our customers from the sale of goods are generally dealers and distributors. Transfer of control,
  and therefore revenue recognition, generally corresponds to the date when the goods are made available to the customer, or when
  the goods are released to the carrier responsible for transporting them to the customer in the following manner:

  l   Domestic sales are recognised at the time of dispatch from the point of sale;

  l   Export sales are recognised on the date when shipped on board as per terms of sale and are initially recorded at the relevant
      exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction

  Generally, Company does not offer any specific credit period to its customer. All invoices are due immediately after billing.

  The nature of contracts of the Company are such that no material part performance obligations would remain unfulfilled at the
  end of any accounting period.

  Variable consideration

  If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount (like volume rebates/incentives, cash discounts etc.), the Company
  estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer.
  The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue
  reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable
  consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate of variable consideration for expected future volume rebates/incentives,
  cash discounts etc. are made on the most likely amount method.

  Consideration payable to the customer

  Consideration payable to a customer includes cash amounts that the Company pays, or expects to pay, to the customer.
  The consideration payable to a customer is accounted for as a reduction of the revenue.

  Warranty obligations

  The Company provides warranties for general repairs of defects as per terms of the contract with ultimate customers.
  These warranties are considered as assurance type warranties and are accounted for under Ind AS 37- Provisions,
  Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

  Financing component

  Generally, the Company receives short-term advances from its customers. The Company applies the practical expedient for
  short-term advances received from customers. That is, the promised amount of consideration is not adjusted for the effects of
  a significant financing component if the period between the transfer of the promised good or service and the payment is one
  year or less.

  Principal versus agent consideration in respect of freight

  The Company, on behalf of its customers (dealers and distributors), dispatches goods to agreed locations for an agreed fee.
   The Company has determined that the performance obligation of the Company is to arrange for those goods and services
  (Company is an agent) to the dealers and hence the amount charged to the customer offset by freight charges paid to the freight
  service providers is shown as revenue and disclosed as other operating income or other operating expenses, depending upon
  the results of the offsetting.




                                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         125
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
    Contract balances

    Trade receivables

    A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage of
    time is required before payment of the consideration is due). Refer to accounting policy no. 6 ‘Financial instruments – initial
    measurement and subsequent measurement’.

    Contract liabilities

    A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods to a customer for which the Company has received consideration (or an
    amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company transfers goods or
    services to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made, or the payment is due (whichever is earlier).
    Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract.

    Refund liabilities

    A refund liability is the obligation to refund some or all the consideration received (or receivable) from the customer and is
    measured at the amount the Company ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer. The Company updates its
    estimates of refund liabilities (and the corresponding change in the transaction price) at the end of each reporting period.

3   Property, plant and equipment and depreciation/amortisation

    A. Property, plant and equipment

       i)   Capital work in progress, property, plant and equipment except land are carried at historical cost of acquisition,
            construction or manufacturing, as the case may be, less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Freehold land is
            carried at cost of acquisition.

       ii) Cost represents all expenses directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition capable of operating
           in the manner intended. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment, if the recognition
           criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company
           depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost
           is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
           All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.

       iii) Costs incurred to manufacture/construct property, plant and equipment are reduced from the total expense under the
            head ‘Expenses, included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

       iv) Land and buildings acquired/constructed, not intended to be used in the operations of the Company and held for earning
           long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company, are categorised as
           investment property.

       v) An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or
          when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the
          asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in
          the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is derecognised.

       vi) The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at regular
           intervals and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.

    B. Depreciation and amortisation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value

       (a) Leasehold land

            Premium on leasehold land is amortised over the period of lease.

       (b) Other tangible assets

            i.   a. Depreciation is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method to allocate the cost, net of residual value over
                    the estimated useful lives of the assets.


126     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
         		     b. Where a significant component (in terms of cost) of an asset has an estimated economic useful life shorter than
                   that of its corresponding asset, the component is depreciated over its shorter life.

         		     c. The Company, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and Management estimate, depreciates
                   certain items of property, plant and equipment over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life
                   prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The Management believes that these estimated useful lives
                   are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used.

             ii. Assets which are depreciated over useful life/residual value different than those indicated by Schedule II are as under:
                Asset class                           As per Schedule II                        Useful life

                Aircraft                              20 years                                  10 years
                PDC Dies                              8 years                                   3 years

             iii. Depreciation on additions is being provided on pro rata basis from the month of such additions.

             iv. Depreciation on assets sold, discarded or demolished during the year is being provided up to the month in which such
                 assets are sold, discarded or demolished.

4   Intangible assets

    A. Technical know-how acquired

         Technical know-how acquired is stated at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any.
         Acquired technical know-how is amortised equally over a period of estimated useful life.

    B. Technical know-how developed by the Company

    i)   Expenditure incurred by the Company on development of know-how researched, is recognised as an intangible asset,
         if and only if the future economic benefits attributable to the use of such know-how are probable to flow to the Company
         and the costs/expenditure can be measured reliably.

    ii) Costs incurred to develop an intangible asset are reduced from total expenses and disclosed under the head ‘Expenses,
        included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

    iii) The cost of technical know-how developed is amortised equally over its estimated useful life i.e. generally three years from
         the date of commencement of commercial production.

    C. Research and development costs

         Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project are recognised as an intangible
         asset when the Company can demonstrate:

         l   The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale

         l   Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset

         l   How the asset will generate future economic benefits

         l   The availability of resources to complete the asset

         l   The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development

         Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated
         amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete, and the
         asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation expense is recognised in the
         Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset.

         During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.



                                                                                 15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         127
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
5   Investment property

    Property which is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company,
    is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
    Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits
    associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Repairs and
    maintenance costs are expensed when incurred.

    Depreciation on investment property is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method over the estimated useful lives.
    Useful life of assets, as assessed by the Management, corresponds to those prescribed by Schedule II- Part ‘C’ of the
    Companies Act, 2013.

6   Investments and financial assets

    A. Investment in subsidiaries

       Interest in subsidiaries are recognised at cost. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the said investments.

       The Company assesses at the end of each reporting period, if there are any indications that the said investments may be
       impaired. If so, the Company estimates the recoverable value/amount of the investment and provides for impairment, if any
       i.e. the deficit in the recoverable value over cost.

    B. Other investments and financial assets

       i.   Classification

            The Company classifies its financial assets at initial recognition in the following measurement categories:

            l   those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income, or through profit or
                loss), and

            l   those to be measured at amortised cost.

            The classification is done depending upon the Company’s business model for managing the financial assets and the
            contractual terms of the cash flows.

            For assets classified as ‘measured at fair value’, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other
            comprehensive income, as elected. For assets classified as ‘measured at amortised cost’, this will depend on the business
            model and contractual terms of the cash flows.

       ii. Measurement

            Initial Measurement

            Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other
            comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The classification of financial assets at initial
            recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Company’s business model for
            managing them.

            At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value including, in the case of ‘a financial asset
            not at FVTPL’, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of
            financial assets carried at ‘FVTPL’ are expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss, when incurred.

            Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Company has applied the
            practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer accounting policy no. 2
            ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.




128     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                        Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
        For a financial asset to be classified and subsequently measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI (excluding equity
        instruments which are measured at FVTOCI), it needs to give rise to cash flows that are ‘solely payments of principal and
        interest (SPPI)’ on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at
        an instrument level. Financial assets with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified and measured at FVTPL, irrespective
        of the business model.

        The Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets to generate
        cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling
        the financial assets, or both.

        Subsequent Measurement

        Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on the Company’s business model for managing the financial asset
        and the cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Company
        classifies its financial instruments:

        Subsequently measured at amortised cost:

        A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:

        a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and

        b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
           interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.

        Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent SPPI are
        measured at amortised cost e.g. debentures, bonds, fixed maturity plans, trade receivables etc.

        This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently
        measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into
        account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. Interest income
        from trade receivables is included in other operating income in the Statement of Profit and Loss; whilst interest
        income from the remaining financial assets is included in other income in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The
        losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. A gain or loss on a financial asset
        that is subsequently measured at amortised cost is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is
        derecognised or impaired.

        In case of fixed maturity plans (FMP), they are measured at amortised cost, if the Company intends to hold the FMPs
        to maturity. Further, the Company applies amortised cost for those FMPs where the Company is able to demonstrate
        that the underlying instruments in the portfolio would fulfill the SPPI test and the churn in the underlying portfolio is
        negligible. These conditions are assessed at each Balance Sheet date. If these conditions are not fulfilled, then FMPs
        are valued at FVTPL.

        The Company intends to hold its investment in open ended target maturity funds (i.e. exchange traded funds/ETF) till
        maturity. It may be noted that these funds have a pre-determined maturity date. These funds follow a passive buy and
        hold strategy; in which the existing underlying investment bonds are expected to be held till maturity unless sold for
        meeting redemptions or rebalancing requirements as stated in the scheme document. In our view, such strategy mitigates
        intermittent price volatility in open ended target maturity funds’ underlying investments; and investors who remain
        invested until maturity are expected to mitigate the market/volatility risk to a large extent. These funds can invest only
        in plain vanilla INR bonds with fixed coupon and maturity; and cannot invest in floating rate bonds. Based on this, the
        Company believes that the investments in open ended target maturity funds meet the requirements of SPPI test as per the
        requirements of Ind AS 109.

        Subsequently measured at FVTOCI:

        All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading,
        if any, are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company may make an irrevocable election to
        present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an
        instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.




                                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           129
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
          Equity instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair
          value. Fair value movements are recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI). If the Company decides to classify
          an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, are recognised
          in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to Statement of profit and loss, even on sale of investment.
          However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.

          Subsequently measured at FVTPL:

          Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost and FVTOCI are measured at fair value through profit
          or loss e.g. investments in mutual funds. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at fair value
          through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other
          gains/(losses) in the period in which it arises.

          In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVTOCI
          criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or
          recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has designated investments in mutual
          funds (other than FMP) as at FVTPL. Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with
          all changes recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

       iii. Impairment of financial assets

          The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its financial assets
          carried at amortised cost for e.g., debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balances; and lease receivables.
          The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and if so,
          assess the need to provide for the same in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

          The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables and all
          lease receivables.

          The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises
          impairment loss allowance based on lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.

          For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines whether there
          has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly,
          12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL
          is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant
          increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based
          on 12-month ECL.

          Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial
          instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within
          12 months after the reporting date.

          ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract and
          all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e. all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When estimating
          the cash flows, an entity is required to consider all contractual terms of the financial instrument over the expected life of
          the financial instrument.

          ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised during the period is recognised as income/expense in the
          Statement of Profit and Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the Statement of Profit and
          Loss. The Balance Sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below:

          l   Financial assets measured at amortised cost, revenue receivables and lease receivables: ECL is presented as an
              allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the Balance Sheet. The allowance reduces
              the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance
              from the gross carrying amount.

          For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments based on shared
          credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in
          credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.



130    Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                            Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
           For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, the Company applies the low credit risk simplification. At every reporting
           date, the Company evaluates whether the debt instrument is considered to have low credit risk using all reasonable and
           supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. In making that evaluation, the Company reassesses
           the internal credit rating of the debt instrument.

           However, in certain cases, the Company may also consider a financial asset to be in default when internal or external
           information indicates that the Company is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking
           into account any credit enhancements held by the Company. A financial asset is written off when there is no reasonable
           expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.

       iv. Derecognition of financial assets

           A financial asset is derecognised only when Company has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the financial
           asset or the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired. Where the entity has transferred an asset,
           the Company evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
           In such cases, the financial asset is derecognised.

       v. Reclassification of financial assets

           The Company determines classification of financial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition,
           no reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial assets
           which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is a change in the business model for managing those
           assets. Changes to the business model are expected to be infrequent. The Company’s senior management determines
           change in the business model as a result of external or internal changes which are significant to the Company’s
           operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. A change in the business model occurs when the Company
           either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations. If the Company reclassifies financial
           assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date which is the first day of the immediately
           next reporting period following the change in business model. The Company does not restate any previously recognised
           gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest.

           The Company applies amortised cost, where it has ability to demonstrate that the underlying instruments in the portfolio
           fulfill the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) test and the churn in the portfolio is negligible.

7   Derivative and hedging activities

    The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as range forward and par forward currency contracts to hedge its
    foreign currency risks. Such derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date at which the derivative
    contract is entered and are subsequently re-measured at fair value as at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for
    subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature
    of the item being hedged, and the type of hedge relationship designated.

    The Company documents its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. In terms
    thereof, the Company designates their derivatives as hedges of foreign exchange risks associated with the cash flow of highly
    probable forecast transactions (viz. export sales).

    The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the
    hedged item is more than 12 months; it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item
    is less than or equal to 12 months.

    Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting –

    The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised
    in the other comprehensive income in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of
    the hedged item on a present value basis from the inception of the hedge. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is
    recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss, within other gains/(losses).

    For hedge accounting, hedges are classified as Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is
    either attributable to a risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign
    currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.




                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          131
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
    When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates them in entirety as the hedging
    instrument. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value for the effective portion of cash flow hedges is recognised
    in OCI and later reclassified to profit or loss when the hedge item affects profit or loss.

    Where option contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates intrinsic value of the option contract as
    hedging instrument.

    Gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in intrinsic value of the option contract are recognised in the
    ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The changes in time value of the option contracts that relate to the hedged items are
    recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’ within equity.

    When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any
    cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a forecast
    transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to
    the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a hedging instrument is unexercised and expires, the cumulative gain or loss is reversed
    within equity with the corresponding effect to the hedge receivable/payable.

    If the hedge ratio for risk management is no longer optimal, but risk management objectives remain unchanged and hedge
    continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationships are re-balanced so that the hedge ratio aligns. Consequently,
    hedge ineffectiveness is computed and accounted for in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

8   Impairment of non-financial assets

    Assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
    recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
    amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of
    assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are
    largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets (cash-generating units).

9   Foreign currency transactions

    i)   Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which
         the Company operates (‘the functional currency’).

    ii) On initial recognition, all foreign currency transactions are recorded at the foreign exchange rate on the date of the transaction.

    iii) Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency outstanding at the close of the financial year are revalorised at the
         appropriate exchange rates prevailing at the close of the year.

    iv) The gain or loss on decrease/increase in reporting currency due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, in case of monetary
        assets and liabilities in foreign currency, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

    v) Fixed assets purchased at liaison offices in foreign exchange are recorded at their historical cost computed with reference to
       the average rate of foreign exchange remitted to the liaison office.

    vi) Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
        rates at the dates of the initial transactions.

    vii) In determining the spot exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) on the
         derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to advance consideration, the date of the transaction
         is the date on which the Company initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the
         advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the Company determines the transaction date
         for each payment or receipt of advance consideration.

10 Inventories

    Cost of inventories have been computed to include all costs of purchases (including materials), cost of conversion and other costs
    incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

    i)   Finished stocks of vehicles and auto spare parts and stocks of work-in-progress are valued at cost of manufacturing or net
         realisable value whichever is lower. Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.


132      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                          Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   ii) Stores, packing materials and tools are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
       whichever is lower.

   iii) Raw materials and components are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
        whichever is lower.

   iv) Inventory of machinery spares and maintenance materials not being material are expensed in the year of purchase.

   v) Goods in transit are stated at actual cost incurred up to the date of Balance Sheet.

   Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the
   estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

11 Employee benefits

   a) Privilege leave entitlements

      Privilege leave entitlements are recognised as a liability, in the calendar year of rendering of service, as per the rules of the
      Company. As accumulated leave can be availed and/or encashed at any time during the tenure of employment, subject to
      terms and conditions of the scheme, the liability is recognised based on an independent actuarial valuation.

      They are therefore measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided
      by employees up to the end of the reporting period using the projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted using
      the market yields at the end of the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
      Remeasurements as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in
      Statement of Profit and Loss.

   b) Gratuity

      Payment for present liability of future payment of gratuity is being made to approved gratuity fund, which fully covers the
      same under Cash Accumulation Policy and Debt fund of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Bajaj Allianz Life
      Insurance Company Ltd. (BALIC). However, any deficit in plan assets managed by LIC and BALIC as compared to the liability
      based on an independent actuarial valuation is recognised as a liability.

      The liability or asset recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value of the
      defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation
      is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method in conformity with the principles and manner of
      computation specified in Ind AS 19.

      Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in
      net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest
      on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the Balance Sheet with a corresponding debit or credit
      to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss
      in subsequent periods.

      The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
      value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

   c) Superannuation

      Defined contribution to superannuation fund is being made as per the scheme of the Company and recognised as expense as
      and when due.

   d) Provident fund contributions are made to Company’s Provident Fund Trust. The contributions are accounted for as defined
      benefit plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Deficits, if any, of the fund
      as compared to liability based on an independent actuarial valuation is to be additionally contributed by the Company and
      hence recognised as a liability.

   e) Defined contribution to Employees Pension Scheme 1995 is made to Government Provident Fund Authority and recognised
      as expense as and when due.



                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         133
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
12 Taxation

   a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
      authorities, in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961; and the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards prescribed
      therein. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the
      reporting date.

   b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other
      comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI
      or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
      applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

   c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
      liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
      enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
      asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

       Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
       future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

       The Company offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off
       current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes
       levied by the same taxation authority which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise
       the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities
       or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.

13 Provisions and contingent liabilities

   The Company creates a provision when there is present obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow
   of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
   amount of the obligation. A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
   that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of resources. When the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no
   provision or disclosure is made.

   If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when
   appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
   recognised as a finance cost.

14 Leases including investment properties

   The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract conveys the right
   to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

   As a lessee

   a) Right of use assets

       The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is
       available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and
       adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
       recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease
       incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the
       estimated useful lives of the assets.

       If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise of a
       purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset.

       The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to note 1 clause 8 for accounting policies on impairment of
       non-financial assets.




134    Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                            Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   b) Lease liabilities

      At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease
      payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments primarily comprise of fixed payments.

      In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease
      commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement
      date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made.

   c) Short-term leases and leases of low value assets

      The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of office spaces and certain
      equipment (i.e. those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a
      purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of office equipment that are
      considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense
      on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

   As a Lessee

   Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset
   are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Initial
   direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and
   recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.

15 Government grant

   Grants from the Government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be
   received, and the Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to income are deferred and
   recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and
   presented within other operating revenue.

   Government grants in the nature of export incentives are accounted for in the period of export of goods if the entitlements can be
   estimated with reasonable accuracy and conditions precedent to claim are reasonably expected to be fulfilled.

   When loans or similar assistance are provided by Governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current
   applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable interest is regarded as a Government grant. The loan or assistance is initially
   recognised and measured at fair value and the Government grant is measured as the difference between the initial carrying value of
   the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy applicable to financial liabilities.

16 Dividends

   Provision is made for any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity, on or
   before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.

17 Cash and cash equivalents

   For presentation in the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, other short-term, highly
   liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
   which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

18 Earnings per share

   Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the
   weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s
   earnings per share is the net profit for the period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period
   and all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that
   have changed the number of equity shares outstanding without a corresponding change in resources.

   For calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted
   average number of shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.



                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          135
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
19 Segment reporting

   Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Core Management Committee
   which includes the Managing Director who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Core Management Committee examines
   performance both from a product as well as from a geographical perspective and has identified two operative reportable
   segments from which significant risks and rewards are derived viz. Automotive business and Investments.

20 Fair value measurement

   The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each Balance Sheet date. Fair value is the
   price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
   the measurement date.

   The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes
   place either:

   l   In the principal market for the asset or liability, or

   l   In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.

   The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.

   The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the
   asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their best economic interest.

   A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits
   by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest
   and best use.

   The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to
   measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.

   All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair
   value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:

   l   Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities

   l   Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly
       or indirectly observable

   l   Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is
       unobservable.

   The Company has set policies and procedures for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurement of financial assets,
   which includes valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.

   For fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities based on the nature, characteristics and
   risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.

   This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes.

   l   Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions (note 1 clause 1)

   l   Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy (note 32)

   l   Investment properties (note 3)

   l   Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) (note 32)




136    Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                           Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
21 Other Income

   a) Dividends

      Dividends are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss only when the right to receive payment is established, and it
      is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company and that the amount of the
      dividend can be measured reliably.

   b) Other income

      The Company recognises income on accrual basis. However, where the ultimate collection of the same lacks reasonable
      certainty, revenue recognition is postponed to the extent revenue is reasonably certain and can be reliably measured.

22 Employee stock options

   Certain employees (including senior executives) of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the form of employee stock
   options (ESOP).

   The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate
   valuation model. Further details are given in note 43.

   That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in share-based payment reserve in equity, over the period in
   which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. The cumulative expense recognised
   for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has
   expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or credit in
   the Statement of Profit and Loss for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and
   end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.

   Service and non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of
   ESOPs, but the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity
   instruments that will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions are reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other
   conditions attached to an ESOP, but without an associated service requirement, are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
   Non-vesting conditions are reflected in the fair value of an ESOP and lead to an immediate expensing of an ESOP unless there
   are also service and/or performance conditions.

   No expense is recognised for ESOPs that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and/or service conditions have
   not been met. Where ESOPs include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of
   whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied.

   The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.

23 Treasury shares

   The Company has created an ESOP Trust (the ‘Trust’) for providing share-based payment to its employees. The Company uses the
   Trust as a vehicle for distributing shares to employees under the Employee Stock Option Scheme. The Trust purchase shares of
   the Company from the market, for giving shares to employees. The Company treats Trust as its extension and shares held by the
   Trust are treated as treasury shares.

   Own equity instruments that are re-acquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from other equity. No gain or
   loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity
   instruments. Share options exercised during the reporting period are settled with treasury shares.

24 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures

   New and amended standards

   Several amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in March 2022, but do not have an impact on the standalone
   financial statements of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standards or amendments that have been issued
   but are not yet effective.




                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         137
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                 Gross block (a)                                             Depreciation                          Net block
                                                             As at                                                   As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                           1 April                                Deductions/    31 March     1 April                       For the    31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                  2021            Additions            adjustments        2022       2021    Deductions          year (b)       2022           2022



Land freehold                                                19.97                     –                    –        19.97         –            –                 –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                         47.28               107.11                  1.98      152.41          –            –                 –           –          152.41
Buildings                                                   976.00                  4.30                 0.36      979.94     360.79          0.22            21.70      382.27          597.67
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                             17.74                  0.05                    –        17.79      14.30           –              0.76       15.06            2.73
Plant and machinery                                       1,368.53                27.35                 99.83     1,296.05   1,064.25        89.08            57.52     1,032.69        263.36
Computers and IT Equipment                                   84.01                  4.67                 5.26       83.42       78.32         5.26             3.88        76.94           6.48
Dies and jigs                                               661.18                83.21                  3.32       741.07    401.97          3.13            76.47      475.31          265.76
Electric installations                                       74.30                  0.74                    –       75.04       71.44           –              1.23       72.67            2.37
Factory equipment                                           439.28                21.29                  1.76      458.81     244.02          1.60            27.41      269.83          188.98
Furniture                                                    44.35                  2.27                 0.08       46.54       28.69         0.08             3.27       31.88           14.66
Office equipment                                             53.13                  3.95                 0.19       56.89       38.69         0.19             3.56       42.06           14.83
Electric fittings                                            36.81                  0.33                 0.25       36.89       26.69         0.25             1.79       28.23            8.66
Vehicles and aircraft                                       356.50               203.35                 58.67       501.18    284.59         49.55            46.45      281.49          219.69
Total                                                    4,179.08                458.62               171.70     4,466.00    2,613.75      149.36           244.04     2,708.43       1,757.57


Capital work-in-progress                                     15.98                73.61                 12.77       76.82          –            –                 –           –          76.82
(a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
(b) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.
(c) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to property, plant and equipment.
(d) No assets aquired or transferred as part of business combination.


Ageing Schedule for Capital work-in-progress

                                                   Less than                                        More than
Particulars                                           1 year       1-2 years      2-3 years           3 years    Total


Projects in progress                                     74.55            0.34               –            1.93   76.82
Projects temporarily suspended                               –               –               –              –        –
Total                                                    74.55            0.34               –           1.93    76.82
There are no delayed and overrun projects.




138           Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                        Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment (Contd.)
  Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                 Gross block (a)                                                Depreciation                          Net block
                                                              As at                                                 As at          As at                                      As at          As at
                                                            1 April                               Deductions/   31 March         1 April                       For the    31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                   2020           Additions            adjustments       2021           2020    Deductions          year (b)       2021           2021



Land freehold                                                19.97                     –                   –       19.97              –            –                 –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                         47.93                     –                 0.65      47.28              –            –                 –           –           47.28
Buildings                                                   940.49                35.51                    –      976.00         338.37            –             22.42      360.79          615.21
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                             17.39                  0.35                   –       17.74           13.54           –              0.76       14.30            3.44
Plant and machinery                                       1,361.60                24.99                 18.06    1,368.53       1,016.80        13.37            60.82     1,064.25         304.28
Computers and IT Equipment                                   81.58                  2.72                 0.29      84.01           73.90         0.29             4.71       78.32            5.69
Dies and jigs                                               573.44                98.30                 10.56     661.18         342.18          8.86            68.65      401.97          259.21
Electric installations                                       74.29                  0.01                   –       74.30           70.04           –              1.40       71.44            2.86
Factory equipment                                           414.61                26.03                  1.36     439.28         218.07          0.95            26.90      244.02          195.26
Furniture                                                    42.16                  2.51                 0.32      44.35           25.96         0.31             3.04       28.69           15.66
Office equipment                                             45.65                  7.91                 0.43      53.13           36.46         0.43             2.66       38.69           14.44
Electric fittings                                            33.16                  3.80                 0.15      36.81           25.02         0.15             1.82       26.69           10.12
Vehicles and aircraft                                       369.01                10.74                 23.25     356.50         258.91         13.20            38.88      284.59           71.91
Total                                                    4,021.28                212.87                 55.07   4,179.08        2,419.25        37.56          232.06     2,613.75        1,565.33


Capital work-in-progress                                     46.54                14.45                 45.01      15.98              –            –                 –           –          15.98
(a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
(b) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.
(c) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to property, plant and equipment.
(d) No assets aquired or transferred as part of business combination.


Ageing Schedule for Capital work-in-progress

                                                   Less than                                        More than
Particulars                                           1 year       1-2 years      2-3 years           3 years   Total


Projects in progress                                     13.82            0.23             1.73          0.20   15.98
Projects temporarily suspended                               –               –               –              –       –
Total                                                    13.82            0.23             1.73          0.20   15.98
There are no delayed and overrun projects.




                                                                                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                 139
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                              2022             2021


Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                          69.66            69.66
Additions                                                                                                                    –                  –
Closing balance                                                                                                          69.66            69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                          17.36            15.76
Depreciation charge                                                                                                       1.17             1.60
Closing balance                                                                                                         18.53             17.36
Net carrying amount                                                                                                      51.13            52.30

i) Amounts recognised in the Statement of profit and loss for investment properties
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                              2022             2021


Rental income                                                                                                            12.08            14.23
Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income                                                     (0.21)           (0.97)
Direct operating expenses from property that did not generate rental income                                                  –                  –
Profit from investment properties before depreciation                                                                    11.87            13.26
Depreciation                                                                                                             (1.17)           (1.60)
Profit from investment property                                                                                          10.70            11.66

ii) Contractual obligations

   The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property. There are no contractual obligations to purchase,
   construct or develop investment property as at the year end.

iii) Leasing arrangements		
			
     Investment property is leased out to various tenants under operating leases. Disclosure on future rent receivable is included in Note 40.

iv) Fair value
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                              2022             2021


Investment property                                                                                                    223.03            205.55


Estimation of fair value
The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar properties. Since investment properties leased out by
the Company are cancellable and non-cancellable leases, the market rate for sale/purchase of such premises are representative
of fair values. Company’s investment properties are at a location where active market is available for similar kind of properties.
Hence, fair value is ascertained on the basis of market rates prevailing for similar properties in those location determined by an
independent registered valuer, as defined under Rule 2 of The Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules 2017,
and consequently classified as a level 2 valuation.



140     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                  Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
4 Intangible assets
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                       Gross block                                        Amortisation                         Net block
                                                                  As at                                          As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                                1 April                       Deductions/    31 March     1 April                        For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                       2021            Additions   adjustments        2022       2021    Deductions             year        2022           2022



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired                             95.56                  –              –       95.56      48.26            –             21.98       70.24           25.32
Total intangible assets                                          95.56                   –              –       95.56      48.26            –             21.98       70.24          25.32


Intangible assets under development                                    –                 –              –           –          –            –                 –           –                –
(a) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to intangible assets.




        Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                       Gross block                                        Amortisation                         Net block
                                                                  As at                                          As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                                1 April                       Deductions/    31 March     1 April                        For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                       2020            Additions   adjustments        2021       2020    Deductions             year        2021           2021



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired                             66.38               29.18             –       95.56      23.29            –             24.97       48.26           47.30
Total intangible assets                                          66.38                29.18             –       95.56      23.29            –             24.97       48.26          47.30


Intangible assets under development                              13.65                15.53          29.18          –          –            –                 –           –                –
(a) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to intangible assets.




                                                                                                                     15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                 141
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)

                                                                                       Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                            As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                  2022              2021         2022            2021



(A) Investment in subsidiaries
   Investment carried at cost
       In subsidiaries
              Unquoted:
              1,980,000 (1,980,000 ) Equity Shares of Euro 100 each in
                        Bajaj Auto International Holding B V Amsterdam,
                        Netherlands                                                       1,218.72           1,218.72          –                 –
               449,997 (449,997) Equity Shares of Thai Baht 100 each in
                       Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd                                             10.54             10.54           –                 –
               411,875 (411,875) Equity Shares of USD 3 each in
                       PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                                6.17               6.17          –                 –
                          Less: Provision for diminution in the value
                          of investment                                                       2.17               2.17          –                 –
                                                                                              4.00              4.00           –                 –
              5,000,000 (–) Equity Shares of H 10 each in
                        Chetak Technology Ltd.                                                5.00                 –
              5,000,000 (–) Equity Shares of H 10 each in Bajaj Auto
                        Consumer Finance Ltd.                                                 5.00                 –
                  6,000 (–) Equity Shares of Euro 100 each in
                        Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.                                                 5.17                 –
Total (A)                                                                                 1,248.43       1,233.26              –                 –


(B) Other Investments
   Investment carried at Fair Value through OCI
       In Equities:
              Quoted:
              3,500,000 (3,500,000) Equity Shares of H 10 each in
                        Bajaj Holdings & Investments Ltd.                                 1,753.87           1,152.57          –                 –
              Unquoted:
                 17,495 (14,760) Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares
                        (CCPS) of H 100 each in Yulu Bikes Private Ltd.                    144.21             121.66           –                 –
                          Fair value                                                      1,898.08       1,274.23              –                 –


   Investment carried at amortised cost
       In Bonds and debentures:
              Quoted:
                    500 (500) 8.30% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                                 53.23              54.18           –                 –
                    300 (300) 8.11% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                                 32.03              32.54           –                 –
                  1,350 (1,350) 5.85% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                                135.08             135.07           –                 –
                                                                        Carried over       220.34             221.79           –                 –
                                                                        Carried over      1,898.08       1,274.23              –                 –



142     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                                    Non-current investments         Current investments
                                                                                          As at 31 March                As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                2022             2021         2022            2021



                                                                   Brought over         1,898.08       1,274.23              –                –
       In Bonds and debentures: (Contd.)
              Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                   Brought over          220.34            221.79            –                –
                  3,000 (–) 6.80% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                               307.10               –             –                –
                  1,650 (–) 6.92% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                              168.65                –             –                –
                  1,500 (1,500) 6.50% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                              152.89            153.65            –                –
                    500 (–) 7.04% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                                51.17               –             –                –
                  3,100 (–) 6.72% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                              316.30                –             –                –
                  2,500 (–) 6.75% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                        of H 1,000,000 each                                              254.95                –             –                –
                    500 (500) 8.18% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                             53.95            54.40             –                –
                  1,750 (1,750) 8.24% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                            190.65            192.37            –                –
                  4,550 (4,550) 7.43% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                            480.01            482.41            –                –
                    700 (700) 7.10% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                             73.08             73.38            –                –
                    600 (600) 6.87% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                              61.21            61.33            –                –
                  2,800 (2,800) 6.39% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                            277.36            277.15            –                –
                    750 (750) 6.42% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                             73.38             73.18            –                –
                    250 (250) 6.44% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                             24.54             24.48            –                –
                  1,900 (1,900) 6.49% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                            189.38            189.16            –                –
                    100 (–) 6.50% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                              10.19               –             –                –
                    250 (–) 6.72% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                             25.52                –             –                –
                    250 (–) 6.85% National Bank for Agriculture and
                        Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                              25.19               –             –                –
                  5,000 (–) 5.05% Bajaj Finance Ltd. of H 1,000,000 each                  499.94               –             –                –
                  1,250 (–) 7.20% Housing Development Finance
                        Corporation Ltd. of H 1,000,000 each                              127.93               –             –                –
                  2,500 (–) 5.30% Housing Development Finance
                        Corporation Ltd. of H 1,000,000 each                                  –                –       250.93                 –
                         Amortised cost                                                 3,583.73       1,803.30        250.93                 –
                                                                    Carried over        5,481.81       3,077.53        250.93                 –



                                                                                   15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited        143
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                                      Non-current investments        Current investments
                                                                                           As at 31 March               As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                 2022             2021        2022              2021



                                                                   Brought over          5,481.81       3,077.53       250.93                  –
       In Government Bonds and securities:
              Quoted:
              5,000,000 (5,000,000) 8.03% Gujarat State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                      53.80             54.92          –                  –
          26,500,000 (26,500,000) 7.89% Gujarat State Development Loan
                     of H 100 each                                                        284.42            290.00          –                  –
          10,000,000 (10,000,000) 6.49% Gujarat State Development Loan
                     of H 100 each                                                        100.34            100.37          –                  –
              5,000,000 (5,000,000) 6.57% Gujarat State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                       50.14            50.15          –                  –
              7,464,200 (–) 7.77% Gujarat State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                       77.48               –           –                  –
              1,000,000 (1,000,000) 7.98% Karnataka State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                      10.82             11.03          –                  –
          10,000,000 (10,000,000) 6.53% Karnataka State Development
                     Loan of H 100 each                                                   100.36            100.40          –                  –
              4,150,000 (4,150,000) 6.54% Karnataka State Development
                        Loan of H 100 each                                                  41.55            41.55          –                  –
              7,500,000 (–) 6.96% Karnataka State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                      75.59                –           –                  –
              1,000,000 (1,000,000) 8.15% Maharashtra State Development
                        Loan of H 100 each                                                  10.90            11.12          –                  –
              5,000,000 (–) 7.95% Maharashtra State Development Loan
                        of H 100 each                                                      52.07                –           –                  –
                          Amortised cost                                                   857.47           659.54          –                  –


       In Fixed Deposits:
              Unquoted:
                        – 5.25% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                   500.00                –           –                  –
                        – 5.30% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                   500.00                –           –                  –
                        – 5.25% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                    115.00               –           –                  –
                        – 7.82% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                               –                –           –             107.84
                          Amortised cost                                                 1,115.00               –           –             107.84
       In Fixed maturity plans
              Unquoted:
                        – (20,000,000) Units of Axis Fixed Term Plan
                          Direct Growth                                                        –                –           –              24.93
         604,182,600 (1,762,182,600) Units of Aditya Birla Sun Life Fixed
                     Term Plan Direct Growth                                               44.06            680.16     736.77        1,508.21
                                                                       Carried over        44.06            680.16     736.77            1,533.14
                                                                       Carried over      7,454.28       3,737.07       250.93             107.84




144    Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                                   Non-current investments           Current investments
                                                                                         As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                               2022              2021         2022              2021



                                                                  Brought over         7.454.28           3,737.07     250.93             107.84
		     In Fixed maturity plans (Contd.)
			Unquoted: (Contd.)
                                                                  Brought over           44.06             680.16      736.77            1,533.14
          10,000,000 (525,000,000) Units of DSP Fixed Maturity Plan Direct
                     Growth                                                                   –              11.77       12.72            646.07
               625,557 (1,082,207) Units of PGIM India Fixed Maturity
                       Fund Direct Plan Growth                                                –             78.65        85.26             57.55
         468,000,000 (833,000,000) Units of HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan                      50.19            500.87       542.19            517.87
         471,000,000 (1,429,000,000) Units of ICICI - Prudential Fixed
                     Maturity Plan                                                        11.51            578.55       615.44       1,203.02
                        – (154,000,000) Units of IDFC Fixed Term Plan Growth                  –                 –            –            192.52
         684,996,250 (1,322,000,000) Units of Kotak Fixed Maturity
                     Plan Growth                                                          77.80            737.55      798.90             891.60
         105,000,000 (170,000,000) Units of L&T Fixed Maturity Plan
                     Direct Growth                                                            –            128.56       139.31             80.55
         489,996,250 (956,000,000) Units of Nippon India Fixed Horizon
                     Fund Growth                                                          76.76            508.33      550.80             679.77
          40,000,000 (290,000,000) Units of Invesco Fixed Maturity Plan
                     Direct Growth                                                            –             48.95        53.05            313.34
         749,996,250 (770,000,000) Units of SBI Debt Fund Direct
                     Plan Growth                                                        494.79             316.55      342.56             632.51
                        - (70,000,000) Units of Sundaram Fixed Term Plan
                          Direct Growth                                                       –                 –            –             87.56
          10,000,000 (100,000,000) Units of Tata Fixed Maturity
                     Plan Growth                                                              –              12.10       13.12            112.42
          10,000,000 (340,000,000) Units of UTI Fixed Maturity Plan Growth                    –             12.52        13.53            412.88
                          Amortised cost                                                 755.11           3,614.56    3,903.65       7,360.80


       In Exchange Traded Funds
              Quoted:
              8,724,846 (8,724,846) Bharat Bond ETF April 2025                          953.97             904.90            –                 –
          15,940,436 (11,185,688) Bharat Bond ETF - April 2030                         1,934.05           1,273.11           –                 –
              3,565,094 (–) Bharat Bond ETF - April 2031                                 387.70                 –            –                 –
              4,282,638 (–) Bharat Bond ETF - April 2032                                433.31                  –            –                 –
          13,695,640 (13,695,640) Nippon India ETF Nifty CPSE Bond Plus
                     SDL - 2024 Maturity                                                150.01             142.74            –                 –
          43,000,000 (–) Nippon India ETF Nifty SDL - April 2026                        466.70                  –            –                 –
          64,996,750 (–) Nippon India Nifty AAA CPSE Bond Plus SDL
                     Apr 2027 Maturity 60:40 Index Fund                                  65.08                  –            –                 –
         263,770,566 (–) Aditya Birla Sun Life Nifty SDL Plus PSU Bond
                     Sep 2026 60:40 Index Fund                                          269.26                  –            –                 –
                                                                   Carried over        4,660.08       2,320.75               –                 –
                                                                   Carried over        8,209.39           7,351.63    4,154.58       7,468.64



                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           145
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                               Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                    As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                          2022              2021         2022            2021



                                                                Brought over      8,209.39           7,351.63    4,154.58       7,468.64
       In Exchange Traded Funds: (Contd.)
              Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                Brought over      4,660.08       2,320.75              –                 –
         166,093,651 (–) Aditya Birla Sun Life Nifty SDL Apr 2027 Index Fund        167.84                 –           –                 –
         100,000,000 (–) Aditya Birla Sun Life Crisil SDL Plus AAA PSU
                     Apr 2027 60:40 Index Fund                                     100.05                  –           –                 –
         113,891,937 (–) Kotak Nifty SDL Apr 2027 Top 12 Equal Weight
                     Index Fund                                                    114.44                  –           –                 –
          20,000,000 (–) Kotak Nifty SDL Apr 2032 Top 12 Equal Weight
                     Index Fund                                                      20.18                 –           –                 –
         298,359,352 (–) SBI CPSE Bond Plus SDL Sep 2026 50:50
                     Index Fund                                                    302.05                  –           –                 –
          87,162,962 (–) Axis Crisil SDL 2027 Debt Index Fund                        87.13                 –           –                 –
          63,868,446 (–) ICICI Prudential Nifty SDL Sep 2027 Index Fund             64.04                  –           –                 –
                         Amortised cost                                           5,515.81       2,320.75              –                 –


   Investment carried at fair value through profit or loss
       In Short-term mutual funds
       Quoted:
          34,631,684 (34,631,684) Units of DSP Banking & PSU Debt Fund -
                     Direct Plan - Growth                                            69.17             66.44           –                 –
         341,788,061 (341,788,061) Units of IDFC Corporate Bond Fund -
                     Direct Plan -Growth                                           548.23             521.83           –                 –
          14,296,498 (14,296,498) Units of IDFC Super Saver Income Fund -
                     Short Term - Direct Plan - Growth                              70.05              67.00           –                 –
          30,603,467 (30,603,467) Units of Kotak Bond Short Term Plan -
                     Direct Plan - Growth                                           139.84            133.06           –                 –
          30,779,648 (30,779,648) Units of L&T Short Term Opportunities
                     Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                     69.60             66.64           –                 –
          92,496,457 (92,496,457) Units of Nippon India Floating Rate
                     Fund - Short Term - Direct Plan - Growth                       349.12            332.88           –                 –
         146,141,389 (146,141,389) Units of ICICI Prudential Income
                     Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan-Growth                       486.23             467.67           –                 –
         449,031,864 (449,031,864) Units of HDFC Medium Term
                     Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan-Growth                      1,189.10           1,130.82          –                 –
          47,617,832 (47,617,832) Units of Sundaram Banking & PSU
                     Debt Fund - Direct Plan- Growth                               168.27             162.76           –                 –
                         Fair value                                               3,089.61           2,949.10          –                 –
                                                                Carried over     16,814.81      12,621.48        4,154.58       7,468.64




146    Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                             Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                                                  Non-current investments                  Current investments
                                                                                                          As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                2022               2021               2022               2021



                                                                               Brought over           16,814.81          12,621.48           4,154.58           7,468.64
         In Long duration bond funds
              Quoted:
             82,700,443 (82,700,443) Units of Nippon India Dynamic Bond
                        Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                                      262.47             251.02                    –                    –
             83,348,103 (83,348,103) Units of L&T Triple Ace Bond
                        Fund - Direct Plan -Growth                                                       523.92             497.08                    –                    –
                            Fair value                                                                   786.39              748.10                   –                    –


         In Liquid and overnight mutual funds
              Quoted:
              1,167,236 (1,236,693) IDFC Cash Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                       –                  –           300.09             307.44
                         – (1,103,220) Axis Overnight Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                               –                  –                  –           120.02
                         – (1,202,383) Kotak Overnight Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                              –                  –                  –           132.01
                847,353 (–) SBI Overnight Fund - Direct Plan -Growth                                            –                  –           293.30                      –
             19,379,916 (–) Nippon India Overnight Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                  –                  –            221.16                     –
                            Fair value                                                                          –                  –           814.55             559.47


Total (B)                                                                                             17,601.20          13,369.58            4,969.13           8,028.11


Total (A+B)                                                                                          18,849.63          14,602.84           4,969.13           8,028.11


Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments                                                   2.17               2.17                  –                    –



                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Book value                           Market value
                                                                                                          As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                2022               2021               2022               2021


                                                                                      Quoted          16,652.36          10,192.83          16,563.73          10,140.04
                                                                                   Unquoted            7,166.40          12,438.12                  NA                 NA
                                                                                        Total        23,818.76          22,630.95
Notes to Investments
1 Investments made by the Company other than those with a maturity of less than one year, are intended to be held for long-term. On an assessment of the expected
  credit loss due to significant changes in risk profile, no material provisions are required to be made.
2 In absence of an active market and non availability of quotes on a recognised stock exchange, investment in fixed maturity plans and fixed term plans though listed on
  recognised stock exchanges are disclosed as unquoted. Other mutual funds, though unlisted, are quoted on recognised stock exchanges at their previous day NAVs
  which is the quote for the day.		
3 Refer note 1 (6) for accounting policy on investments and note 33 for credit risk management related to investments.




                                                                                                15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                      147
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2022                2021               2022                2021



Employee loans                                                                                                 4.57               5.22                4.17                  5.74
                                                                                                               4.57               5.22                4.17                  5.74



7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2022                2021               2022                2021



Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                                                                        0.02                   –                  –                    –
Security deposits                                                                                            27.04              26.21                    –                    –
Interest receivable on investments                                                                           34.33                    –            129.71              50.04
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                                                                       –                   –              0.55                   0.72
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 32]                                                   –                   –             80.53             121.39
PSI Receivable                                                                                                    –                   –           345.78                      –
Other advances                                                                                                    –                   –             39.69              51.38
                                                                                                             61.39              26.21             596.26              223.53
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally. [See note 39]




148       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                             Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)

                                                                                        Non-current                      Current
                                                                                       As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                             2022             2021          2022              2021



Capital advances                                                                       269.73           238.52             –                 –
Security deposits                                                                        6.43             6.65             –                 –
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind
   Advances to related parties [See note 39]                                                –               –          11.32              8.81
   Other advances                                                                       22.94            23.79        114.54            215.03
   Doubtful advances                                                                     8.13             8.13             –                 –
                                                                                        31.07            31.92       125.86             223.84
   Provision for doubtful advances                                                       8.13             8.13             –                 –
                                                                                        22.94            23.79       125.86             223.84
Gratuity asset [See note 38]                                                            12.92            16.34             –                 –
VAT refund receivable                                                                   39.78            39.78        129.66            130.31
GST credit/refund receivable                                                                –               –        506.79             764.33
EV subsidy receivable                                                                       –               –          21.06                 –
Export incentives receivable
   Unsecured considered good                                                                –               –        306.31               61.17
   Doubtful                                                                              0.21             0.21             –                 –
                                                                                         0.21             0.21       306.31               61.17
   Provision for doubtful export incentives                                              0.21             0.21             –                 –
                                                                                            –               –        306.31               61.17
                                                                                       351.80           325.08      1,089.68           1,179.65



9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                            2022              2021



Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 31.13 crore (previous year H 84.31 crore))                        591.72            664.26
Work-in-progress                                                                                                       70.11             85.50
Finished goods                                                                                                        541.79            714.36
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                    25.67             27.07
Loose tools                                                                                                             1.22              2.70
                                                                                                                    1,230.51        1,493.89

Amount recognised in profit and loss

Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 6.74 crore
[Previous year – H 47.75 crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the Statement of Profit and Loss.




                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited            149
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)

                                                                                         Non-current                         Current
                                                                                         As at 31 March                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                              2022             2021             2022               2021



Unsecured, considered good                                                                   –                –          1,516.38        2,716.85
Receivables which have significant increase in credit risk                               39.66            44.10                –                  –
                                                                                         39.66            44.10          1,516.38        2,716.85
Allowance for bad and doubtful receivable [See note 33(A)]                               39.66            44.10                –                  –
                                                                                             –                –          1,516.38        2,716.85
                                                                                             –                –          1,516.38        2,716.85



                                                                         Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                             Less than     6 months                                      More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                          6 months        - 1 year 1 - 2 years         2 -3 years       3 years            Total



i)   Undisputed trade receivables – considered good           1,484.52          19.45            11.83            0.02         0.56         1,516.38
ii) Undisputed trade receivables –
    which have significant increase in credit risk                4.29           0.27             1.86            0.36         2.68            9.46
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                   –                –               –              –               –             –
iv) Disputed trade receivables -
    which have significant increase in credit risk                0.33           0.83             5.27            4.75        19.02           30.20
                                                              1,489.14          20.55            18.96            5.13       22.26       1,556.04



                                                                         Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                             Less than     6 months                                      More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2021                          6 months        - 1 year 1 - 2 years         2 -3 years       3 years            Total



i)   Undisputed trade receivables – considered good           2,658.76          52.25             5.28            0.48         0.08      2,716.85
ii) Undisputed trade receivables –
    which have significant increase in credit risk                  –            4.73             3.57            0.81         2.03            11.14
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                   –                –               –              –               –             –
iv) Disputed trade receivables -
    which have significant increase in credit risk                3.61           4.61            10.44        10.98            3.32           32.96
                                                              2,662.37          61.59            19.29        12.27            5.43         2,760.95



11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                           As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                2022               2021



Balances with banks                                                                                                       563.92             505.10
Cash on hand                                                                                                                0.05               0.03
                                                                                                                          563.97             505.13




150      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)

                                                                                          Non-current                        Current
                                                                                          As at 31 March                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                2022             2021           2022              2021



Unclaimed dividend accounts                                                                    –                –          24.37             22.21
Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months                                 0.02                –              –                 –
Deposits with residual maturity for less than twelve months                                    –                –              –              0.02
                                                                                            0.02                –          24.37             22.23
Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' [See note 7]                               (0.02)               –              –                 –
                                                                                               –                –          24.37             22.23



13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                           As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                2022              2021



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                   300.00             300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                    289.37            289.37
                                                                                                                          289.37            289.37


a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                      As at 31 March 2022             As at 31 March 2021
Particulars                                                                                 Nos.      D In Crore            Nos.       D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                        289,367,020            289.37   289,367,020             289.37
Issued during the year                                                                         –                –              –                 –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                                  289,367,020            289.37   289,367,020             289.37

b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

    The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to
    one vote per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors
    and approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
    the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
    The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.

c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                      As at 31 March 2022             As at 31 March 2021
Particulars                                                                                 Nos.      % Holding             Nos.       % Holding



Equity shares of H 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                     96,727,050            33.43%    96,727,050             33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                              26,281,400             9.08%    26,281,400              9.08%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                                  20,757,508             7.17%    22,997,485              7.95%


                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited             151
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
13 Equity share capital (Contd.)
d. Shareholding of promoters
                                                                                                                                                             % change
                                                                                                                                           % of total           during
Promotor name                                                                                                      No. of shares             shares           the year



For 2021-22
Rahulkumar Bajaj*                                                                                                                 –            0.00%            (0.36%)
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                                6,020             0.00%                    –
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                              200,000              0.07%             (0.24%)
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                                42,622              0.01%                    –
Rajiv Bajaj**                                                                                                             754,200              0.26%              0.26%
Sanjiv Bajaj**                                                                                                            327,224               0.11%              0.11%
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                       96,727,050            33.43%                     –
* Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj, one of the promoters of Bajaj Auto Ltd. expired on 12 February 2022. Shares held by Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj in individual capacity, and
previously shown as part of holdings of promoters, are in the process of transmission. As per regulation 31A (6) of SEBI LODR Regulations, Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj
automatically ceases to be a promoter and his holdings would hereafter be shown under ‘Promoter Group - (Estate of Rahulkumar Bajaj)’ category until his shares are
transmitted to the respective legal heirs, who would all be Promoters/Promoter Group.
** Shri Rajiv Rahulkumar Bajaj and Shri Sanjiv Rahulkumar Bajaj, sons of Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj have now succeeded as Promoters and their holdings which earlier
were shown under ‘Promoter Group’ category have got transferred to ‘Promoter’ Category.

                                                                                                                                                             % change
                                                                                                                                           % of total           during
Promotor name                                                                                                      No. of shares             shares           the year



For 2020-21
Rahulkumar Bajaj                                                                                                        1,048,796              0.36%            (0.62%)
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                                6,020             0.00%                    –
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                              906,954              0.31%            (0.22%)
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                                42,622              0.01%                    –
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                       96,727,050            33.43%                     –




152       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                           Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
14 Other equity
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2022              2021



Reserves and surplus:
General reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                           5,887.60       5,431.60
Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                                                      502.00            456.00
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                 6,389.60       5,887.60


Retained earnings
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                          18,861.25      14,750.44
Profit for the year                                                                                               5,018.87       4,554.59
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                                13.42             12.22
Less: Appropriations
    Transfer to General reserve                                                                                    502.00            456.00
    Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2021                                                               4,051.14                 –
    Total appropriations                                                                                          4,553.14           456.00


Balance as at the end of the year                                                                               19,340.40       18,861.25


Other reserves:
Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 33]                                                                             54.33            148.90
Costs of hedging reserve [See note 33]                                                                                5.93           (58.06)


FVTOCI reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                             88.43            (413.13)
Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                                                      537.98           501.56
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                  626.41             88.43


Share based payment reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                              16.91             10.01
Add: Recognised during the year                                                                                      15.36              6.90
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                    32.27             16.91


Treasury shares
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                             (32.14)          (26.62)
Add: Changes during the year                                                                                       (37.37)             (5.52)
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                   (69.51)           (32.14)


                                                                                                                26,379.43       24,912.89




                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          153
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
14 Other equity (Contd.)
Nature and purpose of reserve:

General reserve

General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the
Companies Act, 2013. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Retained earnings

Retained earnings is a free reserve. This is the accumulated profit earned by the Company till date, less transfer to general reserve,
dividend and other distributions made to the shareholders.

Cash flow hedging reserve and Costs of hedging reserve

It represents the effective portion of the fair value of forward/option contracts designated as cashflow hedge.

FVTOCI reserve

The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive
income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity.

Share based payment reserve

Share based payment reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 ‘Share Based Payments’ on the employee stock option scheme
operated by the Company for its employees.

Treasury shares

The reserve for shares of the Company held by the Bajaj Auto ESOP Trust (ESOP Trust). Company has issued employees stock option
scheme for its employees. The equity shares of the Company have been purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to transfer in the
name of employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.


15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                       2022                2021



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                122.77               121.46
                                                                                                                                                122.77               121.46
The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. Also see note 33.




154       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                         Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
16 Provisions
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                                    Non-current                      Current
                                                                                    As at 31 March                As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                         2022             2021          2022             2021



Provision for employee benefits [See note 38]
Provision for compensated absences                                                      –               –         127.56           129.66
Provision for welfare scheme                                                         1.30            1.98           0.56             0.67
                                                                                     1.30            1.98         128.12           130.33
Other provisions
Provision for warranties                                                                –               –          25.63            22.04
                                                                                     1.30            1.98        153.75            152.37

Provision for warranties
Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of vehicles sold which are still under warranty at the end of the reporting
period. These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year. Management estimates the provision based on historical
warranty claim information; and any recent trends that may suggest future claims could differ from historical amounts.
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                        2022             2021


At the beginning of the year                                                                                      22.04             22.64
Arising during the year                                                                                            24.41            18.03
Utilised during the year                                                                                           20.82            18.63
At the end of the year                                                                                             25.63            22.04



17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                        2022             2021



Deferred tax liabilities
On account of timing difference in
    Property, plant and equipment                                                                                 116.03           125.36


Employee benefits:
    Defined benefit plans provisions - P&L                                                                         15.65            22.17
    Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                                                          0.41             0.33


Financial instruments:
    Mutual funds including fixed maturity plans, ETFs                                                             247.12           409.65
    Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                                                 20.27            50.08
    Financial assets at FVTOCI                                                                                     80.75            13.14
                                                                                                                 348.14            472.87
Gross deferred tax liabilities                                                                                   480.23            620.73


                                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          155
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
17 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Contd.)
                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                    2022               2021



Deferred tax assets
On account of timing difference in
Employee benefits:
   Welfare scheme costs and others                                                                              0.47               0.67
   Bonus provisions                                                                                             1.72               1.72
   Provision for privilege leave etc.                                                                          32.10              32.63
   Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                                                      13.67              18.11
                                                                                                               47.96              53.13
Financial instruments:
   Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                                                  –              19.53
   Amortisation of discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                           4.82               0.68
                                                                                                                4.82              20.21
Other items:
   Provision for bad/doubtful debts and advances                                                               12.02              13.15
   Taxes, duties, others etc.                                                                                  12.10              12.10
                                                                                                               24.12              25.25
Gross deferred tax assets                                                                                      76.90              98.59
                                                                                                              403.33             522.14


Movement in deferred tax liabilities (net):
                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                    Property,
                                                                    plant and        Financial   Employee      Other
Particulars                                                        equipment      instruments     benefits     items              Total



At 31 March 2020                                                        154.79         268.57       (55.73)   (21.25)            346.38
Charged/(credited)
   –   to profit and loss                                               (29.43)         48.75        20.99     (4.00)             36.31
   –   to other comprehensive income                                         –         135.34         4.11         –             139.45
At 31 March 2021                                                        125.36         452.66      (30.63)    (25.25)            522.14
Charged/(credited)
   –   to profit and loss                                                (9.33)       (166.66)       (5.79)      1.13           (180.65)
   –   to other comprehensive income                                         –          57.32         4.52         –              61.84
At 31 March 2022                                                        116.03         343.32       (31.90)   (24.12)            403.33




156     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                            Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                2022             2021



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                                0.30             0.50
                                                                                                                            0.30             0.50



19 Trade payables
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                2022             2021



Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                                        150.64            121.20
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                                 3,482.54         4,452.61
                                                                                                                       3,633.18         4,573.81


                                                                                Due - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                Less than          1-2          2-3    More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                    Unbilled      Not due       1 year        years        years      3 years            Total



i.   Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)            –      150.64             –            –            –               –       150.64
ii. Others                                               830.51     2,321.70       323.18          3.11         0.69          3.35      3,482.54
iii. Disputed dues - MSME                                      –           –             –            –            –               –               –
iv. Disputed dues - Others                                     –           –             –            –            –               –               –
                                                         830.51     2,472.34       323.18          3.11         0.69          3.35      3,633.18


                                                                                Due - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                Less than          1-2          2-3    More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2021                    Unbilled      Not due       1 year        years        years      3 years            Total



i.   Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)            –      121.20             –            –            –               –       121.20
ii. Others                                              1,237.57    2,953.75       251.52         6.34         0.58           2.85      4,452.61
iii. Disputed dues - MSME                                      –           –             –            –            –               –               –
iv. Disputed dues - Others                                     –           –             –            –            –               –               –
                                                        1,237.57    3,074.95       251.52         6.34         0.58           2.85      4,573.81




                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited               157
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
20 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                           2022             2021



Security deposits                                                                     27.11            21.50
Unclaimed dividend                                                                    24.37            22.21
Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                        17.57            32.00
Employee benefits payable                                                            192.77           178.55
Other payables                                                                       135.18           153.18
                                                                                     397.00           407.44
Refer note 32 for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.



21 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                           2022             2021



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                           0.27             0.39
Advance received from customers                                                      301.92           408.03
Taxes and duties payable                                                              97.22            47.02
Other payables                                                                        79.30            27.35
                                                                                     478.71           482.79




158       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                           Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
22 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2022             2021



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products                                                                                                 32,135.98       27,132.90


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                          29.25            18.67
Export incentives                                                                                                   551.27          245.59
PSI                                                                                                                 30.50                   –
Royalty                                                                                                             174.58          153.20
Technical know how fees                                                                                               2.65                  –
Rent [See note 40]                                                                                                   26.67            29.45
Insurance claims                                                                                                      0.49             0.25
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                               91.86            55.08
Government grants                                                                                                     2.65             2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                     98.81          103.29
                                                                                                                  1,008.73          608.18
                                                                                                                 33,144.71       27,741.08


Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                            15,201.89      14,445.62
Outside India                                                                                                   16,934.09        12,687.28
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                      32,135.98       27,132.90




Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                  32,407.71       27,374.31
Adjustments:
      Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                        (242.90)         (183.94)
      Sales promotion expenses                                                                                     (28.83)          (57.47)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                            32,135.98       27,132.90




                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         159
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
23 Other income
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                     2022                2021



Investment income
Interest income on fixed income securities                                                    275.05                65.77
Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                   (17.67)              (5.57)
Interest income on fixed deposits                                                               36.42               17.87
Interest income on exchange traded funds                                                      204.68                76.85
Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                       388.93              842.51
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                        887.41             997.43


Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                  45.50                    –


Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                           188.75              254.25
Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                        35.72               15.74
                                                                                             1,157.38           1,267.42
Others
Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                21.59                 1.94
Tax refunds/credits                                                                                 –                 7.10
Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                  30.27                    –
                                                                                                51.86                9.04


                                                                                             1,209.24           1,276.46



24 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

                                                                                                          (Increase)/
Particulars                                                                     2022            2021        decrease



Inventories at the end of the year                                              70.11           85.50               15.39
Work-in-progress                                                               541.79         714.36              172.57
Finished goods                                                                 611.90         799.86               187.96


Inventories at the beginning of the year                                        85.50           57.60             (27.90)
Work-in-progress                                                               714.36         522.78             (191.58)
Finished goods                                                                 799.86         580.38             (219.48)
                                                                               187.96        (219.48)




160      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                 Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
25 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                2022             2021



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees [See note 39]                                                    1,170.31        1,135.47
Contribution to provident and other funds [See note 38 and 39]                                             92.03            61.32
Share based payment to employees                                                                           15.36             6.90
Staff welfare expenses                                                                                     81.10            82.27
                                                                                                        1,358.80        1,285.96



26 Finance costs
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                2022             2021



Interest expense                                                                                            7.35             5.48
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                                     1.31              1.18
                                                                                                            8.66             6.66



27 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                2022             2021



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                            244.04           232.06
Depreciation on investment property                                                                         1.17             1.60
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                                         21.98            24.97
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                              1.98             0.65
                                                                                                          269.17          259.28




                                                                   15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           161
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
28 Other expenses
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                             2022             2021



Stores and tools consumed                                                                             132.43           116.05
Power, fuel and water                                                                                 108.01             91.34
Rent                                                                                                   15.58             16.27
Repairs to buildings                                                                                   38.42             30.12
Repairs to machinery                                                                                  105.59             72.74
Other repairs                                                                                           17.62            13.96
Insurance                                                                                               11.03             6.57
Rates and taxes                                                                                         17.50            24.46
Payment to auditor                                                                                       2.01             1.85
Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                  0.93             0.99
Commission to non-executive directors                                                                    2.28             6.98
Travelling expenses                                                                                    12.24              5.75
Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                488.14           395.62
Loss on exchange fluctuations                                                                               –            22.73
Packing material consumed                                                                             542.22           364.24
Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                       269.84           204.53
Advertisement                                                                                         168.06            247.91
Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                            103.39           103.66
Sales promotion expenses                                                                               43.01             42.37
Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                             –             3.00
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                  128.00           128.25
Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                             0.02             0.62
Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                           8.88            13.10
Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)         (4.44)            16.15
                                                                                                    2,210.76         1,929.26



Payment to auditor
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                             2022             2021



As auditor
   Audit fee                                                                                             1.04             1.04
   Tax audit fee                                                                                         0.10             0.10
   Limited review                                                                                        0.66             0.66
   Other services (certification fees)                                                                   0.20             0.05
Reimbursement of expenses                                                                                0.01                  –
                                                                                                         2.01             1.85




162     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                           Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities
                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                  2022            2021



a) Detail of spends
    i)   Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year                                                                  128.00          126.91
    ii) Amount of expenditure incurred                                                                                                     128.00          128.25
    iii) Shortfall at the end of the year                                                                                                         –                –
    iv) Total of previous years shortfall                                                                                                         –                –
    v) Reason for shortfall                                                                                                                     NA              NA
    vi) Nature of CSR activities
              Poverty, Health, Sanitation, Water                                                                                             35.58          55.84
              Education, Special Education, Vocation, Livelihoods                                                                            22.31           22.93
              Environment, Soil And Water, Protection of Flora and fauna                                                                      8.58           28.93
              Heritage, Art, Culture, Handicrafts, Public Libraries                                                                           0.28            1.75
              Veterans, War Widows, Dependents                                                                                                1.00                 –
              Tech Incubator Within Academic Institution approved by Central Govt.                                                                –          10.00
              Rural Development                                                                                                               4.38            3.94
              Gender/Women, Orphans, Homes and Hostels, Day Care                                                                              3.18            0.63
              Others (including provision for unspent)                                                                                       52.69            4.23
			Total                                                                                                                                   128.00          128.25
			           No funds relating to other than identified and ongoing projects are required to be
			           transferred to specified funds.


b) Amount spent in cash during the year on:
    i)   Construction/acquisition of any asset                                                                                                    –                –
    ii) On purposes other than (i) above                                                                                                   128.00          128.25
                                                                                                                                           128.00          128.25



29 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                  2022            2021



PSI Scheme                                                                                                                                (315.28)                 –
                                                                                                                                          (315.28)                 –
This is amount receivable from State Government of Maharashtra under Package Scheme of Incentive 2007 (PSI), for the period April 2015 to March 2021.




                                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                  163
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
30 Tax expense
                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                          2022             2021



(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                               1,667.11        1,348.10


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                          (2.28)            (3.17)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                   (178.37)            39.48
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                              (180.65)            36.31


Tax expenses                                                                                     1,486.46         1,384.41


(b) Reconciliation of tax expenses and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                6,505.33         5,939.00
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year - 25.168%)                                  1,637.26         1,494.73
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                                 32.22            33.04
    –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                  (4.68)            (0.47)
    –   Others                                                                                        3.87             1.73


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Tax-free interest                                                                                –            (0.16)
    –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                  (11.45)                  –
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                         (109.48)          (64.93)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                 (60.51)          (78.54)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                               (0.77)            (0.99)
Tax expense                                                                                      1,486.46         1,384.41



31 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                          2022             2021



a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                              5,018.87         4,554.59
    Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                       289,367,020     289,367,020
    Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)         221,458          122,242
    Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                   289,145,562     289,244,778
b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                         173.6             157.5
    Face value per share H                                                                            10.0             10.0




164     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                  Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
32 Fair value measurement
i)   Financial instruments by category
                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)

                                                      31 March 2022                                  31 March 2021
                                                                         Amortised                                    Amortised
Particulars                                 FVTPL           FVTOCI            Cost         FVTPL           FVTOCI          Cost



Financial assets
Investments
     –   Equity                                  –         1,898.08              –              –         1,274.23               –
     –   Bonds and debentures                    –               –        3,834.66              –               –       1,803.30
     –   Government bonds and securities         –               –          857.47              –               –         659.54
     –   Exchange traded funds                   –               –         5,515.81             –               –       2,320.75
     –   Fixed maturity plans                    –               –         4,658.76             –               –      10,975.36
     –   Fixed deposits                          –               –         1,115.00             –               –         107.84
     –   Short-term funds                  3,089.61              –               –        2,949.10              –                –
     –   Long duration bond funds           786.39               –               –         748.10               –                –
     –   Liquid mutual funds                814.55               –               –         559.47               –                –
Trade receivables                                –               –         1,516.38             –               –       2,716.85
Loans                                            –               –             8.74             –               –           10.96
Other financial assets                           –               –           577.12             –               –         128.35
Cash and cash equivalents                        –               –          563.97              –               –         505.13
Other bank balances                              –               –           24.37              –               –           22.23
Derivative financial assets                      –           80.53               –              –          121.39                –
                                           4,690.55        1,978.61       18,672.28      4,256.67         1,395.62     19,250.31


Financial liabilities
Sales tax deferral                               –               –          122.77              –               –         121.46
Trade payables                                   –               –         3,633.18             –               –       4,573.81
Other financial liabilities                      –               –          397.00              –               –         407.44
Derivative financial liability                   –               –               –              –               –                –
                                                 –               –         4,152.95             –               –       5,102.71




                                                                      15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited        165
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
32 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy

   This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are
   (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the
   financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has
   classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level
   follows underneath the table.

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements At 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                       Notes           Level 1        Level 2         Level 3           Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
Short-term funds                                                   5              3,089.61              –              –       3,089.61
Long duration bond funds                                           5               786.39               –              –         786.39
Liquid mutual funds                                                5               814.55               –              –         814.55
Financial investments at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
   Option contracts                                                7                    –          80.53               –           80.53
Equity investment                                                  5             1,753.87               –        144.21        1,898.08
                                                                                 6,444.42          80.53         144.21        6,669.16



Assets disclosed at fair value - At 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                       Notes           Level 1        Level 2         Level 3           Total



Investment property                                                3                    –         223.03               –         223.03



Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements At 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                       Notes           Level 1        Level 2         Level 3           Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
Short-term mutual funds                                            5              2,949.10              –              –        2,949.10
Long duration bond funds                                           5               748.10               –              –         748.10
Liquid mutual funds                                                5               559.47               –              –         559.47
Financial investments at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
   Option contracts                                                7                    –         121.39               –         121.39
Equity investment                                                  5              1,152.57        121.66               –       1,274.23
                                                                                 5,409.24         243.05               –       5,652.29




166     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                               Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
32 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy (Contd.)

Assets disclosed at fair value - At 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                         Notes                 Level 1             Level 2            Level 3               Total



Investment property                                                                    3                          –            205.55                    –           205.55

Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets. Quotes would include
rates/values/valuation references published periodically by BSE, NSE etc. basis which trades take place in a linked or unlinked active
market. This includes traded bonds and mutual funds, as the case may be, that have quoted price/rate/value.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market are determined using valuation techniques
which maximise the use of observable market data (either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices) and rely as little as
possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is
included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is
the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value include
•   Open ended mutual funds at NAV's/rates declared and/or quoted
•   Derivative Instruments at values determined by counter parties/Banks using market observable data.

iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                           31 March 2022                          31 March 2021
                                                                                                         Carrying                              Carrying
Particulars                                                                                               Amount          Fair value            Amount           Fair value



Financial assets
Investments
Bonds and debentures                                                                                     3,834.66            3,797.62           1,803.30            1,780.78
Government bonds and securities                                                                             857.47             838.71             659.54             646.49
Exchange traded funds                                                                                    5,515.81           5,482.98            2,320.75           2,303.55
Fixed maturity plans                                                                                     4,658.76           4,636.65           10,975.36           11,121.18
                                                                                                        14,866.70          14,755.96           15,758.95          15,852.00
The carrying amounts of fixed deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, other financial assets/liabilities, loans and cash and cash equivalents are considered to be the
same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.								




                                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                       167
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management
The Company’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including foreign exchange risk). In order to minimise
any adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company, derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward
contracts and foreign currency option contracts are entered to hedge certain foreign currency risk exposures. Derivatives are used
exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or speculative instruments.

This note explains the sources of risk which the Company is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the impact of hedge
accounting in the financial statements

Risk              Exposure arising from                       Measurement          Management



                  Cash and cash equivalents, financial        Credit ratings       Diversification of counterparties, diversification
                  assets measured at amortised cost and                            of investment limits, monitoring of counterparties
                  fair value through profit or loss                                basis credit rating
Credit Risk       Derivative financial instruments            Credit ratings       Deal with reputed banks holding high credit
                                                                                   risk rating
                  Trade receivables                           Credit limit and     No. of overdue days, monitoring of credit limits
                                                              ageing analysis
Liquidity Risk    Other liabilities                           Maturity analysis    Maintaining sufficient cash/cash equivalents and
                                                                                   marketable securities
Market Risk-      Highly probable forecast transactions       Sensitivity analysis Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign
Foreign           and financial assets and liabilities not                         currency options
Exchange          denominated in INR

The Board of Directors provide guiding principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as
foreign exchange risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of
available funds. The Company’s risk management is carried out by a treasury department as per such policies approved by the Board
of Directors. Accordingly, Company’s treasury department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.

A) Credit risk

Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty may default on its contractual obligations leading to a financial loss to the Company.
Credit risk primarily arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, financial assets measured at amortised
cost, financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and trade receivables. None of the financial instruments of the
Company result in material concentration of credit risk.

Credit risk management

For Derivative instruments exposures are extended with multiple banks holding high credit risk ratings.

In regard to Trade receivables, which are typically unsecured, credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing
credit limits and continuously monitoring the credit worthiness of customers to whom credit is extended in the normal course
of business. The Company follows a ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables.
Accordingly, impairment loss allowance is recognised based on lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date, right from
its initial recognition. The provision rates are based on days past due; and the calculation reflects the probability weighted outcome,
the time value of money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events,
current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.




168     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                          Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure of the Company’s trade receivables using provision matrix:
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As on 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                         2022              2021



Estimated total gross carrying amount                                                                            1,556.04           2,760.95
ECL                                                                                                                 39.66             44.10
Net carrying amount                                                                                              1,516.38       2,716.85



Reconciliation of impairment allowance – Trade receivable
Particulars                                                                                                                  (J In Crore)



Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2020                                                                                              28.21
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                             15.89
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2021                                                                                              44.10
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                             (4.44)
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2022                                                                                              39.66

For other financial assets, the Company has an investment policy which allows the Company to invest only with counterparties
having a credit rating equal to or above AA+ and A1+. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of these counterparties on
an on-going basis. Counter party limits maybe updated as and when required, subject to approval of Board of Directors.

B) Liquidity risk

The Company’s principal source of liquidity are ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and cash flows that are generated from operations.
The Company believes that its working capital is sufficient to meet the financial liabilities within maturity period. The Company has no
outstanding term borrowings except sales tax deferral liability amounting to H 122.77 crore which are interest free and are repayable
after 11 years from the Balance Sheet date. Additionally, the Company has invested its surplus funds in fixed income securities or
instruments of similar profile thereby ensuring safety of capital and availability of liquidity as and when required.

Hence the Company carries a negligible liquidity risk.
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                         2022              2021



The Company had
Net working capital funds                                                                                       5,305.03        8,531.92
which includes;
      i)   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                              563.97             505.13
      ii) Current investments                                                                                    4,969.13           8,028.11




                                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited            169
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The table below summarises the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2021:
Maturities of financial liabilities
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     Less than
                                                                                                     and equal    More than
Particulars                                                                                           to 1 year      1 year         Total



As on 31 March 2022
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                              –       122.77       122.77
Trade payables                                                                                        3,633.18            –     3,633.18
Other financial liabilities                                                                             397.00            –       397.00
                                                                                                      4,030.18       122.77     4,152.95


As on 31 March 2021
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                              –       121.46       121.46
Trade payables                                                                                        4,573.81            –     4,573.81
Other financial liabilities                                                                             407.44            –       407.44
                                                                                                      4,981.25       121.46     5,102.71

C) Market risk

(i) Foreign currency risk

The Company has significant exports and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions,
primarily with respect to the USD. Foreign exchange risk arises from highly probable forecast transactions and recognised assets
and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Company’s functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through sensitivity
analysis. The primary objective for forex hedging against anticipated foreign currency risks will be to hedge the Company's highly
probable foreign currency cash flows arising from such transactions (thus reducing volatility of cash flow and profit).

The Company’s risk management policy permits the use of plain foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency option
contracts including Foreign Currency - INR Option Cost Reduction Structures to hedge forecasted sales.

The Company also imports certain materials the value of which is not material as compared to value of exports. Currently,
Company does not hedge this exposure. Nevertheless, Company may wish to hedge such exposures.

The Company uses a combination of foreign currency option contracts and foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its exposure
in foreign currency risk. The Company designates forward contracts in entirety and intrinsic value of foreign currency option
contracts as the hedging instrument. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument
is recognised through other comprehensive income in the ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The change in time value that
relate to the hedged item (aligned time value) is recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’
within equity. Amount recognised in equity is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item (i.e. forecasted export sales) affects
Statement of Profit or Loss. The ineffective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument and any residual time value
(the non-aligned portion), if any, is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

The intrinsic value of foreign exchange option contracts is determined with reference to the relevant spot market exchange rate.
The differential between the contracted strike rate and the spot market exchange rate is defined as the intrinsic value. Time value
of the option is the difference between fair value of the option and the intrinsic value.




170      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                         Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The fair values (Marked-to-market/MTM) of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as on 31 March 2022 and
31 March 2021 are as follows:
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)

                                                                                As at 31 March 2022           As at 31 March 2021
                                                                              Notional In    MTM Gain/   Notional In         MTM Gain/
For export transactions:                                                    USD Mn (Sell)       (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)            (Loss)



Foreign currency derivative designated as hedging instruments –
options contracts                                                                1,326.00            80.53      1,369.00            121.39
                                                                                 1,326.00            80.53      1,369.00            121.39
For import transactions: NIL

Open exposure

The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
                                                                                                                            (USD Million)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

                                                                                                                   2022              2021



Receivables                                                                                                        94.68            134.16
Payables                                                                                                            8.05             15.80
Others (EEFC balances)                                                                                            64.50              63.32


Sensitivity analysis

The following table demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant. The impact on other components of equity arises from the changes in fair value of the foreign exchange option contracts
designated as cash flow hedges.
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Impact on other components of equity                                                                               2022              2021


USD Sensitivity
INR/USD Increase by 5% (Previous year 5%)                                                                       (185.07)           (235.80)
INR/USD Decrease by 5% (Previous year 5%)                                                                         329.99            364.25

Maturity of outstanding contracts

The details in respect of the maturity of outstanding foreign exchange option contracts are given below:
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)

                                                                                As at 31 March 2022           As at 31 March 2021
                                                                              Notional In    MTM Gain/   Notional In         MTM Gain/
On export transactions:                                                     USD Mn (Sell)       (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)            (Loss)


Not later than three months                                                        331.50            23.05       339.50              43.61
Later than three months and not later than six months                              331.50            24.94       349.50              38.61
Later than six months and not later than one year                                  663.00            32.54       680.00              39.17
Later than one year and not later than two years                                        –               –              –                 –
                                                                                 1,326.00            80.53      1,369.00            121.39
On import transactions: NIL



                                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited            171
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Impact of hedging activities

(a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:
Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                              Carrying amount                           Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal         of hedging               Hedge            value of hedging         item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value           instrument               ratio*           instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                        10,050.09                     72.60               1:1                (126.38)                               126.38
                                                10,050.09                     72.60                                  (126.38)                               126.38

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                              Carrying amount                           Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal         of hedging               Hedge            value of hedging         item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value           instrument               ratio*           instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                         10,008.76                   198.98               1:1                  191.46                              (191.46)
                                                 10,008.76                   198.98                                    191.46                              (191.46)
 * The foreign exchange option contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.


(b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance
Cash flow hedge 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                   Change in the value of                 Hedge                         Amount reclassified          Line item affected in
                                   the hedging instrument                 ineffectiveness               from cash flow               the Statement of Profit
                                   recognised in other                    recognised in profit          hedging reserve to           and Loss because of the
Particulars                        comprehensive income                   or loss                       profit or loss               reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                             (126.38)                              –                       83.97                         Revenue
                                                              (126.38)                              –                       83.97

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                   Change in the value of                 Hedge                         Amount reclassified          Line item affected in
                                   the hedging instrument                 ineffectiveness               from cash flow               the Statement of Profit
                                   recognised in other                    recognised in profit          hedging reserve to           and Loss because of the
Particulars                        comprehensive income                   or loss                       profit or loss               reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                               191.46                              –                            –                        Revenue
                                                                191.46                              –                            –




172      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                         Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The Company enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the
hedged item, so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. During the years ended 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2021,
the Company did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items.

Therefore, no ineffectiveness is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the years ended 31 March 2022
and 31 March 2021.

Movements in cash flow hedging reserve and costs of hedging reserve
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      Foreign Currency
                                                                                                                          Risk Foreign
Derivative Instrument                                                                                                 exchange options



(i) Cash flow hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2020                                                                                                       5.63
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                        191.46
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                             –
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                          (48.19)
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                    148.90
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                        (42.41)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                      (83.97)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                           31.81
Balance – As at 31 March 2022                                                                                                      54.33


(ii) Costs of hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2020                                                                                                   (121.81)
Less: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                             85.20
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                             –
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                         (21.45)
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                    (58.06)
Add: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                              86.61
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                        (1.09)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                          (21.53)
Balance – As at 31 March 2022                                                                                                       5.93

(ii) Other risks

The Company has deployed its surplus funds into various financial instruments including units of mutual funds, bonds, fixed maturity
plans etc. The Company is exposed to price risk on such investments, which arises on account of movement in interest rates, liquidity
and credit quality of underlying securities.

The Company has invested its surplus funds primarily in debt based mutual funds and fixed maturity plans. The value of investment
in these mutual fund schemes is reflected though Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Management Company on daily basis.
The Company has not performed a sensitivity analysis on these mutual funds based on estimated fluctuations in their NAV as in
management’s opinion, such analysis would not display a correct picture.




                                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           173
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
34 Capital management
a) Objectives, policies and processes of capital management

    The Company is cash surplus and has no capital other than Equity. The Company is not exposed to any regulatory imposed
    capital requirements.

    The cash surpluses are currently invested in income generating debt instruments (including through mutual funds) and money
    market instruments depending on economic conditions in line with the guidelines set out by the Management. Safety of capital
    is of prime importance to ensure availability of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate
    return on the surplus funds.

    The Company does not have any borrowings and does not borrow funds unless circumstances require.
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2022              2021



Equity                                                                                                       26,668.80       25,202.26
Less: Tangible and other assets                                                                                2,514.14           2,067.50
		 Working capital                                                                                              335.90             503.81
		 Investments in subsidiaries                                                                                 1,248.43       1,233.26
Investments in debt and similar investments                                                                   22,570.33      21,397.69

No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes of capital management during the year.

b) Dividends distributed and proposed
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2022              2021



Dividends recognised in the financial statements
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2021 of H 140 (31 March 2020 - H Nil) per equity share,
declared and paid                                                                                              4,051.14                 –
Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
Directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of H 140 per equity share
(31 March 2021 – H 140). This proposed dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders in the
ensuing annual general meeting.                                                                                4,051.14           4,051.14




174      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                              Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
35 Contingent liabilities
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2022                  2021



a. Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts                                                              201.45               205.25
b. Excise, Service tax and Customs matters under dispute                                                             340.72               363.38
c. Income tax matters                                                                                                899.21               872.34
d. Value Added Tax (VAT)/Sales Tax matters under dispute                                                             142.00               123.31
e. Claims made by temporary workmen
   Pending before various judicial/appellate authorities in respect of similar matters adjudicated by the
   Supreme Court. The matter is contingent on the facts and evidence presented before the courts/                 Liability        Liability
   adjudicating authorities and not necessarily likely to be influenced by the Supreme Court's order         unascertained    unascertained
In all the cases mentioned above, outflow is not probable and hence not provided by the Company.


36 Capital commitments
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2022                  2021



Capital commitments, net of capital advances                                                                         589.55               102.93



37 Segment information

Segment information based on consolidated financial statements is given in note 37 to consolidated financial statements, which are
attached to these financial statements.

The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.

The business segments comprise the following:
i. Automotive
ii. Investments
iii. Others




                                                                                15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited              175
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits
Liability for employee benefits has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in conformity with the principles set
out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.

Funded schemes
Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity payments to employees. The gratuity benefit payable to the employees of the Company is
greater of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Company’s gratuity scheme. Employees who are in continuous
service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to
approved gratuity fund.
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2022               2021



Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation (DBO)                                                         477.07             490.00
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                       (521.52)           (537.58)
Net funded obligation                                                                                           (44.45)            (47.58)
Amount not recognised due to asset ceiling                                                                        31.53              31.24
Net defined benefit liability/(asset) recognised in Balance Sheet                                               (12.92)            (16.34)


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                              28.73              29.43
Past service cost                                                                                                     –             (23.47)
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                 (2.81)             (5.36)
Total expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                             25.92               0.60


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                             71.95              88.17
Remeasurements during the period due to
    Changes in financial assumptions                                                                             (14.50)                 –
    Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                           (15.75)                 –
    Experience adjustments                                                                                        10.72             (49.84)
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                      3.76               2.38
    Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                           (1.84)             31.24
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                            54.34               71.95




176      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                            Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2022              2021



Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                       (16.34)             77.94
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                       25.92              0.60
Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                               (17.61)           (16.22)
Employer contributions (Prevous year includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore from the Company)                     (4.89)          (78.66)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                       (12.92)           (16.34)

                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2022              2021



Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                                               490.00             631.88
Current service cost                                                                                                  28.73             29.43
Past service cost                                                                                                         –           (23.47)
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                                                30.25             31.59
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions                                              (14.50)                 –
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in demographic assumptions                                             (15.75)                –
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience changes                                                    10.72            (49.84)
Benefits paid (Previous year includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore)                                            (52.38)           (129.59)
Closing of defined benefit obligation                                                                               477.07            490.00

                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2022              2021



Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                                                   537.58             553.94
Employer contributions (Previous year includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore from the Company)                     4.89             78.66
Interest on plan assets                                                                                               35.18             36.95
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                         (3.75)            (2.38)
Benefits paid (Previous year includes ex-gratia payout of H 76.44 crore from the Company)                           (52.38)           (129.59)
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                                                   521.52            537.58




                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           177
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                        2022               2021



Disaggregation of assets
Category of assets
Insurer managed funds.                                                                                            521.52            537.58
Others                                                                                                                 –                 –
                                                                                                                  521.52            537.58

Sensitivity Analysis

Gratuity is a lump sum plan and the cost of providing these benefits is typically less sensitive to small changes in demographic
assumptions. The key actuarial assumptions to which the benefit obligation results are particularly sensitive to are discount rate
and future salary escalation rate. The following table summarises the impact in percentage terms on the reported defined benefit
obligation (DBO) at the end of the reporting period arising on account of an increase or decrease in the reported assumption by
50 basis points.
                                                                                 As at 31 March 2022           As at 31 March 2021
                                                                                                  Salary                         Salary
                                                                                 Discount      escalation       Discount      escalation
Particulars                                                                          rate            rate           rate            rate



Senior staff
   Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                             (3.25%)        (3.34%)        (3.28%)             3.36%
   Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                             (3.44%)        (3.18%)         3.48%             (3.20%)
Junior staff
   Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                             (3.10%)        (3.26%)        (4.12%)             4.36%
   Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                             (3.36%)        (3.04%)         4.52%)            (4.02%)


These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in defined benefit obligation (DBO) in isolation and assuming there
are no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. There have been no changes from the previous periods in the
methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses.

Funding arrangement and policy

The money contributed by the Company to the fund to finance the liabilities of the plan has to be invested.

The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to insurance companies. The insurance companies
in turn manage these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is within the
permissible limits prescribed in the insurance regulations.

There is no compulsion on the part of the Company to fully pre fund the liability of the Plan. The Company’s philosophy is to fund the
benefits based on its own liquidity and tax position as well as level of under funding of the plan.

The expected contribution payable to the plan next year is H 50 crore.




178      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                               Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
Projected plan cash flow

The table below shows the expected cash flow profile of the benefits to be paid to the current membership of the plan:
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                    Less than           Between            Between                  Over
Particulars                                                                            a year         1 - 2 years         3 -5 years             5 years                Total



31 March 2022
Senior staff                                                                              27.19              12.75               62.91            196.87              299.72
Junior staff                                                                              83.76              47.65             108.62             382.06              622.09


31 March 2021
Senior staff                                                                              25.52              11.80              33.37             203.24              273.93
Junior staff                                                                              64.79               41.61             110.94             547.74             765.08


                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in years)                                                                                  2022                2021



Senior Staff                                                                                                                                         6.68                6.75
Junior Staff                                                                                                                                         6.45                8.62


                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Principal Actuarial Assumptions (Expressed as Weighted Averages)                                                                                    2022                2021



Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                                               7.25%              6.80%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%

The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account, inflation, seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand
and supply in the employment market.




                                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                        179
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund
                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                              2022              2021


Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                    1,385.12       1,444.48
Fair Value of plan assets                                                            (1,451.09)     (1,444.48)
Net funded obligation                                                                  (65.97)                 –
Amount not recognised due to asset ceiling                                               65.97                 –
Net defined benefit liability/(asset) recognised in Balance Sheet                            –                 –


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                     39.75             37.31
Administration expenses                                                                      –                 –
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                            –                 –
(Gains)/losses on settlement                                                                 –                 –
Total expenses charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                   39.75             37.31


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                        –                 –
Remeasurements during the period due to
    Changes in financial assumptions                                                         –                 –
    Changes in demographic assumptions                                                       –                 –
    Experience adjustments                                                            (100.29)             17.96
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                            34.32            (17.96)
    Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                  65.97                 –
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                        –                 –


Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                –                 –
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                          39.75             37.31
Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                       –                 –
Employer contributions                                                                  (39.75)           (37.31)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                –                 –


Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                1,444.48        1,363.48
Current service cost                                                                     39.75             37.31
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                   96.34             90.60
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience adjustments                (100.29)             17.96
Employee contributions                                                                   76.06             73.29
Benefits paid                                                                         (173.35)           (136.87)
Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                             2.13             (1.29)
Closing defined benefit obligation                                                   1,385.12       1,444.48



180      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                            Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2022              2021


Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                                                 1,444.48          1,363.48
Interest on plan assets                                                                                               96.34             90.60
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                       (34.32)             17.96
Employer contributions during the period                                                                              39.75             37.31
Employee contributions during the period                                                                              76.06             73.29
Benefits paid                                                                                                      (173.35)           (136.87)
Assets acquired/(settled)                                                                                              2.13             (1.29)
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                                                 1,451.09         1,444.48

                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                              As at 31 March

Disaggregation of assets                                                                                                                2022



Quoted
Property                                                                                                                                       –
Government debt instruments                                                                                                           1,170.51
Other debt instruments                                                                                                                 267.24
Entity's own equity instruments                                                                                                                –
Insurer managed funds                                                                                                                          –
Others                                                                                                                                  13.34
                                                                                                                                   1,451.09


                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Key actuarial assumptions                                                                                             2022              2021



Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                 7.25%             6.80%
Future derived return on assets (p.a.)                                                                              10.02%              8.67%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment (p.a.)                                            6.55%             6.25%
Average historic yield on the investment (p.a.)                                                                      9.32%              8.12%
Guaranteed rate of return (p.a.)                                                                                     8.10%             8.00%




                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited            181
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Unfunded schemes
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

                                                                          As at 31 March 2022               As at 31 March 2021
                                                                      Compensated           Welfare      Compensated         Welfare
Particulars                                                              Absences           Scheme          Absences         Scheme


Present value of unfunded obligations                                        127.56              1.86         129.66               2.65
Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss                         12.81             0.21           15.16              0.28
Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income                                                   (0.33)                            (0.11)
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                          7.25%           7.25%            6.80%             6.80%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                 10.00%              N.A.         10.00%               N.A.
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                 10.00%              N.A.         10.00%               N.A.

Compensated absences

The compensated absences cover the Company’s liability for casual and earned leave.

Entire amount of the provision is presented as current, since the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement
for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company does not expect all employees to take the full amount
of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months. The following amounts reflect leave that is not expected to be taken
or paid within the next 12 months.
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                      2022             2021



Compensated absences expected to be settled after twelve months                                                 101.09           108.22

                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                      2022             2021



Amount recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Defined contribution plans:
    Superannuation paid to trust                                                                                  8.25             8.23
    Pension fund paid to Government authorities                                                                  13.09            13.33
    Others                                                                                                        4.72             1.80
Defined benefit plans:
    Gratuity                                                                                                     25.92             0.60
    Provident fund paid to trust                                                                                 39.75            37.31
    Others                                                                                                        0.30             0.05
                                                                                                                92.03             61.32




182      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                              Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
39 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required
   by the Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                      2021–22                         2020–21
                                                                                                                                               Outstanding                     Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                   amounts                         amounts
                                                                                                                               Transaction    carried in the   Transaction    carried in the
Name of related party and Nature of relationship          Nature of transaction                                                      value   Balance Sheet           value   Balance Sheet



A   Subsidiaries:
    PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (99.25% shares
    held by Bajaj Auto Ltd.)                              Contribution to equity (411,875 shares of USD 3 each)                         –              6.17             –              6.17
                                                          Provision for diminution in value of investment                               –             (2.17)            –             (2.17)
                                                          Services received                                                             –                 –           1.35                –
    Bajaj Auto International Holdings
    BV Amsterdam Netherlands
    (Fully owned subsidiary)                              Contribution to equity (1,980,000 shares of Euro 100 each)                    –          1,218.72             –          1,218.72
    Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. (Fully owned subsidiary)   Contribution to equity (449,997 shares of THB 100 each)                       –             10.54             –             10.54
                                                          Services received                                                           8.82                –             –                 –
    Chetak Technology Ltd. (Fully owned subsidiary)       Contribution to equity (5,000,000 shares of H 10 each)                      5.00             5.00             –                 –
                                                          Reimbursement of expenses                                                   3.84                –             –                 –
    Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.
    (Fully owned subsidiary)                              Contribution to equity (5,000,000 shares of H 10 each)                      5.00             5.00             –                 –
                                                          Reimbursement of expenses                                                   1.72                –             –                 –
                                                          Business support service rendered                                           0.81                –             –                 –
    Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.                                 Contribution to equity (6,000 shares of Euro 100 each)                      5.17             5.17             –                 –


B   Associates, joint ventures and investing parties:
    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. (Investing           Investment in shares by BHIL
    party - holds 33.43% shares of Bajaj Auto Ltd.)       (96,727,050 shares of H 10 each)                                              –            (96.73)            –            (96.73)
                                                          Purchase of shares by BAL (3,500,000 shares of H 10 each)                     –          1,111.49             –          1,111.49
                                                          Dividend paid                                                           1,354.18                –             –                 –
                                                          Dividend received                                                         45.50                 –             –                 –
                                                          Business support service received                                         44.62                 –          42.27                –
                                                          Business support service rendered                                           0.11                –           0.04                –


C   Key management personnel and their relatives:
    Rahul Bajaj (Chairman Emiratus)                       Sitting fees                                                                0.01                –           0.07                –
                                                          Commission                                                                  0.03            (0.03)          4.68            (4.68)
                                                          Special commission                                                          2.25                –             –                 –
                                                          Perquisite value for use of accommodation, car, medical costs etc.            –                 –           1.07                –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                      0.25                –           0.26                –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                  –              3.60             –              3.60
    Rajiv Bajaj (Managing Director)                       Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)                        42.69           (27.52)         37.92           (25.02)
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                    2.92                –           2.65                –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                      2.21                –           2.08                –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                  –              1.92             –              1.92
    Pradeep Shrivastava (Executive Director)              Short-term employee benefits                                                8.74                –           7.71                –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                    0.69                –           0.61                –
                                                          Fair value of stock options granted                                         0.94                –             –                 –
    Rakesh Sharma (Executive Director)                    Short-term employee benefits                                                9.73                –           7.66                –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                    0.57                –           0.49                –
                                                          Equity shares issued pursuant to stock option scheme                        2.40                –             –                 –
                                                          Fair value of stock options granted                                         0.84                –             –                 –




                                                                                                                   15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                   183
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
39 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required
   by the Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                             2021–22                         2020–21
                                                                                                                                      Outstanding                     Outstanding
                                                                                                                                          amounts                         amounts
                                                                                                                      Transaction    carried in the   Transaction    carried in the
Name of related party and Nature of relationship   Nature of transaction                                                    value   Balance Sheet           value   Balance Sheet



    Madhur Bajaj (Vice Chairman)                   Rent paid for premises                                                    0.31                –           0.30                –
                                                   Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                –              4.40             –              4.40
                                                   Sitting fees                                                              0.05                –           0.05                –
                                                   Commission                                                                0.13            (0.13)          0.13            (0.13)
    Sanjiv Bajaj                                   Sitting fees                                                              0.05                –           0.05                –
                                                   Commission                                                                0.13            (0.13)          0.13            (0.13)
    Shekhar Bajaj                                  Sitting fees                                                              0.05                –           0.05                –
                                                   Commission                                                                0.13            (0.13)          0.13            (0.13)
    Niraj Bajaj (Chairman)                         Sitting Fees                                                              0.08                –           0.05                –
                                                   Commission                                                                0.20            (0.20)          0.13            (0.13)
    Rishabnayan Bajaj (Management Trainee)         Short-term employee benefits                                              0.10                –             –                 –
                                                   Post-employment benefits                                                  0.00                –             –                 –


D   Other entities/persons:
    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                             Purchase of windpower                                                     6.81                –          11.40                –
                                                   OA charges reimbursement                                                  5.20                –           8.14                –
                                                   Business support service rendered                                         0.40                –           0.47                –
    Bajaj Finance Ltd.                             Investment in shares by BFL (150 shares of H 10 each) - H 1,500             –             (0.00)            –             (0.00)
                                                   Service rendered                                                        28.27             (0.07)         21.48             1.29
                                                   Service received                                                         11.63                –           1.93                –
                                                   Security deposit received                                                   –             (0.21)            –             (0.21)
                                                   Investment in fixed deposit                                                 –                 –             –            100.00
                                                   Investment in secured non convertible debentures                       500.00           500.00              –                 –
                                                   Interest income/(reversal) on fixed deposit                               0.87                –           8.02            11.17
                                                   Interest income/(reversal) on secured non convertible debentures        22.55             22.55             –                 –
                                                   Dividend paid                                                             0.00                –             –                 –
    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.       Insurance premiums paid                                                  18.42            11.32          15.41             8.81
                                                   Claims received/receivable                                              26.80             14.30             –                 –
    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.          Insurance premiums paid                                                   4.29             0.03           1.17            (0.00)
                                                   Investment in shares by BALIC (125,000 shares of H 10 each)                 –             (0.13)            –             (0.13)
                                                   Dividend paid                                                             1.75                –             –                 –
    Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.                     Services rendered                                                         0.06                –           0.05                –
                                                   Security deposit received                                                 0.00            (0.03)            –             (0.02)
    Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                         Purchases (including services received)                                   0.02            (0.11)          0.04            (0.14)
    Hind Musafir Agency Ltd.                       Services received                                                         2.16            (0.24)          1.33             0.29
    Hindustan Housing Co. Ltd.                     Maintenance charges paid                                                  0.31             0.02           0.23             0.04
    KTM AG                                         Sale of vehicles and material                                           671.58            29.08        553.80             53.35
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                        3.14                –             –                 –
    KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH                       Sale of vehicles and material                                          844.66             20.53        723.86             47.29
                                                   Royalty paid and payable                                                 24.27            (5.78)         22.68            (6.67)
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                        7.66                –           0.29                –
                                                   Purchase of accessories, merchant purchase and other credits              0.52                –           4.77                –




184         Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                                    Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
39 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required
   by the Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                        2021–22                                      2020–21
                                                                                                                                                                                   Outstanding                                  Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                                                       amounts                                      amounts
                                                                                                                                                             Transaction          carried in the          Transaction          carried in the
Name of related party and Nature of relationship                       Nature of transaction                                                                       value         Balance Sheet                  value         Balance Sheet



     KTM Southeast Europe A.E.                                        Sale of vehicles and material                                                                    1.15                 (0.40)                  0.13                 (0.91)
     KTM Southeast Europe S.A.                                        Sale of vehicles and material                                                                        –                 0.39                       –                  0.41
     KTM Sportmotorcycle India Pvt. Ltd.                              Royalty paid and payable                                                                         6.18                 (1.12)                  5.92                 (1.58)
                                                                      Services rendered and other debits                                                               3.07                      –                  2.57                       –
     Husqvarna Motorcycles GmbH                                       Sale of vehicles and material                                                                 317.83                  21.32                154.43                  15.18
                                                                      Royalty paid and payable                                                                         0.43                 (0.13)                  1.43                 (0.33)
                                                                      Services rendered and other debits                                                               0.04                      –                  0.01                       –
     Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                                        Investment in shares by MSL (6,964,277 shares of H 10 each)                                          –                (6.96)                      –                (6.77)
                                                                      Dividend paid                                                                                  94.84                       –                      –                      –
                                                                      Purchases                                                                                        5.92                      –                  1.91                       –
                                                                      Sales (including capital asset)                                                                  0.01                      –                  0.05                       –
                                                                      Services rendered                                                                                0.10                 (5.70)                  0.09                   0.31
     CERG Advisory Pvt. Ltd.                                          Services received                                                                                0.05                      –                  0.12                       –
     Bajaj Auto Employees Group Gratuity Fund                         Gratuity contribution                                                                            4.00                      –                  1.27                       –
     Bajaj Auto Senior Staff Group Gratuity Fund                      Gratuity contribution                                                                            1.00                      –                  1.00                       –
     Bajaj Auto Employees Superannuation Fund                         Superannuation contribution                                                                      8.25                      –                  8.23                       –
     Bajaj Auto Ltd. Provident Fund                                   Provident fund contribution (Employer's share)                                                  39.94               (10.88)                  37.29                (10.33)
     D J Balaji Rao                                                   Sitting fees                                                                                     0.16                      –                  0.16                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.40                 (0.40)                  0.40                 (0.40)
     Dr. Gita Piramal                                                 Sitting fees                                                                                     0.11                      –                  0.13                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.28                 (0.28)                  0.33                 (0.33)
     Naushad D Forbes                                                 Sitting fees                                                                                     0.13                      –                  0.11                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.33                 (0.33)                  0.28                 (0.28)
     Omkar Goswami                                                    Sitting fees                                                                                     0.01                      –                  0.06                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.03                 (0.03)                  0.15                 (0.15)
     Anami N. Roy                                                     Sitting fees                                                                                     0.12                      –                  0.12                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.30                 (0.30)                  0.30                 (0.30)
     Pradip Shah                                                      Sitting fees                                                                                     0.04                      –                  0.05                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.10                 (0.10)                  0.13                 (0.13)
     Ms. Lila Poonawala                                               Sitting fees                                                                                     0.05                      –                  0.05                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.13                 (0.13)                  0.13                 (0.13)
     Abhinav Bindra                                                   Sitting fees                                                                                     0.05                      –                  0.04                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.13                 (0.13)                  0.10                 (0.10)
Name of the related party and nature of the related party relationship where control exists have been disclosed irrespective of whether or not there have been transactions between the related parties. In other cases, disclosure has been
made only when there have been transactions with those parties.
Related parties as defined under clause 9 of the Indian Accounting Standard - 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ have been identified based on representations made by key managerial personnel and information available with the Company.
All above transactions are in the ordinary course of business and on arms' length basis. All outstanding balances are unsecured and are repayable in cash.




                                                                                                                                       15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                                                   185
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
40 Lease
As a lessor

The Company has given premises on operating leases. These lease arrangements range for a period between eleven months to
ten years and include both cancellable and non cancellable leases. Most of the leases are renewable for further period on mutually
agreeable terms and also include escalation clauses.

The total future minimum lease rentals receivable at the Balance Sheet date is as under:
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2022              2021



Receivable
Within one year                                                                                                         22.02             20.97
After one year but not more than five years                                                                             49.43             43.81
More than five years                                                                                                     0.26              0.92
                                                                                                                        71.71             65.70


41 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2022              2021



a. Revenue expenditure - charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                       446.73            403.33
b. Revenue expenditure - capitalised                                                                                           –           0.78
c. Capital expenditure - excluding building                                                                             42.06             20.36
d. Capital expenditure - building                                                                                              –               –
                                                                                                                       488.79            424.47



42 Ratios
                                                                                                             As at/For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                         Remarks                     Numerator           Denominator                        2022               2021



(a) Current ratio                                               Current assets      Current liabilities                 2.13               2.51
(b) Debt equity ratio               Not applicable
(c) Debt service coverage ratio     Not applicable
(d) Return on equity ratio                                      Profit after tax    Avg. net worth                    19.4%              20.2%
(e) Inventory turnover ratio                                    Material cost       Avg. inventory                     17.86              15.34
(f) Trade receivables                                           Revenue from        Avg. trade receivables             15.18              12.22
    turnover ratio                                              contracts with
                                                                customers
(g) Trade payables                  Change is due to            Purchases           Trade payables                      7.22               4.72
    turnover ratio                  increase in material cost
(h) Net capital turnover ratio                                  Total income        Avg. working capital                4.97               5.34
(i) Net profit ratio                                            Profit after tax    Total income                      14.6%              15.7%
(j) Return on capital employed                                  Profit before tax   Avg. capital employed             24.5%              25.6%
(k) Return on investments                                       Profit before tax   Avg. net worth                    25.1%              26.3%




186      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                          Notes to Financial Statements • Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
43 Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 30 January 2019, approved an Employee Stock Options Scheme (‘ESOS’). Pursuant to
the scheme stock options up to a maximum of 0.17% of the then issued equity capital of the Company aggregating to 5,000,000
equity shares of the face value of H 10 each can be issued in a manner provided in the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits)
Regulations, 2014 as amended. The shareholders of the Company vide their special resolution passed through postal ballot on
11 March 2019 approved the issue of equity shares of the Company under one or more Employee Stock Option Scheme(s).

The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has approved the following grants to select senior level executives of the
Company in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme. The details of grants made as of 31 March 2022 are given in below tables:

Particulars                                                                                                          31 March 2022



Grant date                                                                                                    17 May 2019 29 April 2021
No. of options granted                                                                                              287,636        277,116
Exercise price (H)                                                                                                  2,942.65      3,889.75
Weighted average fair value (H)                                                                                      827.52       1,091.44

                                                                                                                         Weighted average
                                                                                                          Weighted              remaining
                                                                           No. of      Range of fair    average fair       contractual life
Total for all grants                                                      options         value (J)        value (J)               (years)



Outstanding at the beginning of the year                                  262,291     663.31 - 974.15         827.52                  5.63
Granted during the year                                                   277,116    859.10 - 1132.99       1,091.44                   6.12
Cancelled during the year                                                  28,637   663.31 - 1132.99        1,028.29                    NA
Expired during the year                                                      –              –                   –                       NA
Exercised during the year                                                  40,784     663.31 - 974.15         738.75                    NA
Outstanding at the end of the year                                        469,986   663.31 - 1132.99          981.63                  5.79
Vested and exercisable at the end of the year                              86,694   663.31 - 1132.99          731.83                  3.67


Method used for accounting for share based payment plan:

The Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair value of
options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes model. The key assumptions used in Black Scholes model
for calculating fair value as on the date of grants are:
                                                                                                            Price of the underlying share
                                        Risk Free                             Expected                        in the market at the time of
Grant date                           interest rate     Expected life          volatility   Dividend yield              the option grant (J)



17 May 2019                       6.88% to 7.26%     3.51-6.51 years   22.18% to 23.79%            2.04%                          2,942.65
29 April 2021                     5.18% to 6.08%     3.51-6.51 years   29.35% to 26.65%            2.06%                          3,889.75


For the year ended 31 March 2022, the Company has accounted expense of H 15.36 crore as employee benefit expenses (See note 25)
on the aforesaid employee stock option plan (Previous year H 6.90 crore). The balance in employee stock option outstanding account
is H 32.27 crore as of 31 March 2022 (Previous year H 16.91 crore).




                                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           187
Standalone Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
44 Estimation of uncertainties relating to COVID-19
The Company has considered the possible effects that may result from the global health pandemic relating to COVID-19 on its
operations. In developing the assumptions relating to the possible future uncertainties in the economic conditions because of this
pandemic, the Company, as at the date of approval of these financial statements has used internal sources of information and
market based intelligence to arrive at its estimates.


45 MSME disclosure
Considering the Company has been extended credit period upto 45 days by its vendors and payments being released on a timely
basis, there is no liability towards interest on delayed payments under ‘The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development
Act 2006’ during the year. There is also no amount of outstanding interest in this regard, brought forward from previous years.
Information in this regard is on basis of intimation received, on requests made by the Company, with regards to registration of
vendors under the said Act.


46 Miscellaneous
a. There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.

b. Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.

c. The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for
   holding any Benami property.

d. The Company has performed the assessment to identify transactions with struck off companies as at 31 March 2022 and
   identified one company with which the transaction value is below rounding off norms adopted by the Company (refund of deposit).

e. The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.

f.   The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties
     (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person.

g. No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind
   of funds by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding,
   whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
   persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any
   guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

h. No funds have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the
   understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest
   in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
   provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.


As per our report of even date                                                                        On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                  Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                  Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                            Dinesh Thapar                                         Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                         Chief Financial Officer                               Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                   Dr. J Sridhar                                       Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                       Company Secretary                                     Vice Chairman




188      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Consolidated Financial Statements • Audit Report




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Holding
Company’), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the ‘Group’) and its associate
comprising the consolidated Balance sheet as at 31 March 2022, the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including other
comprehensive income, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year
then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the ‘consolidated financial statements’).

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of
reports of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and associate,
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (the ‘Act’) in
the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the
consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at 31 March 2022, their consolidated profit including other comprehensive income, their
consolidated cash flows and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended on that date.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Group, in accordance with the
‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2022. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled
the responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our
report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond
to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements. The results of audit procedures
performed by us and by other auditors of components not audited by us, as reported by them in their audit reports furnished to us by
the management, including those procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Key audit matters                                             How our audit addressed the key audit matter
(a) Accounting for income from government grants (as described in Note 29 of the consolidated financial statements)
The Holding Company is entitled to an Industrial Promotion    Our audit procedures included the following:
Subsidy, an incentive, amounting to H 533.50 crore under a    l Obtained and read the eligibility certificate received by the Holding
Package Scheme of Incentives of the Government of               Company from the Directorate of Industries, the Government of
Maharashtra based on the eligible capital investments           Maharashtra.
made from 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2017. Validity period to   l Read the terms and conditions of the scheme issued by the Government of
claim incentive under the Scheme is from 1 April 2015           Maharashtra and the compliance to those conditions.
to 31 March 2024.                                             l Obtained and tested the computation of Grant income prepared by
The Holding Company has recognized the incentive (‘Grant        Management.
income’) amounting to H 30.50 crore for the year 2021-22 in   l Assessed and tested the compliance in relation to recognition of income in
Other Operating Income and H 315.28 crore for years 2015-16     accordance with Ind AS.
to 2020-21 as exceptional item in the Statement of Profit     l Assessed the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements for
and Loss. This transaction had a significant effect on the      compliance with relevant standards.
consolidated financial statements for the year and hence is
                                                              l Obtained Management representation in regard to the recognition and
considered as Key audit matter.
                                                                disclosures in respect of the Grant income.




190       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                            Audit Report • Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Key audit matters                                                How our audit addressed the key audit matter

(b) Gain on investments in associate of a subsidiary due to restructuring
    (as described in Note 29 of the consolidated financial statements)
Bajaj Auto International Holding BV (BAIH BV), a 100%            Our audit procedures included the following:
subsidiary of the Holding Company, held 47.99% stake in          l Read the relevant agreements to understand the terms of the transaction.
KTM AG. During the current year, BAIH BV swapped 46.50%
                                                                 l Verified the accounting treatment to be in compliance with Ind AS.
stake in KTM AG for 49.90% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG. The
resultant gain in fair value H 501.23 crore was recorded as an   l Assessed the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements for

exceptional item in consolidated financial statements.             compliance with relevant standards.
Pursuant to the buyback offer by KTM AG on 5 November 2021,      l Obtained Management representation in regard to accounting and

BAIH BV tendered remaining 1.49% shares in KTM AG for              disclosure relating to the transaction.
a consideration of H 249.33 crore and resulting gain of
H 74.90 crore was recognised as Other income in the
consolidated financial statement.
This transaction had a significant effect on the consolidated
financial statements for the year and hence is considered
as Key audit matter.

We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.

Other information

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Chairman’s Letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not
include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management for the consolidated financial statements

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial
statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated
financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement of changes in
equity of the Group including its associate in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the
assets of the Group and its associate and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of
preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.

In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of
its associate are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and its associate to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either intends to
liquidate the Group and its associate or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are also responsible for overseeing
the financial reporting process of the Group and of its associate.




                                                                                15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited        191
Consolidated Financial Statements • Audit Report




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
consolidated financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:

l   Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
    design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
    provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
    resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
    internal control.

l   Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
    circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding
    Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness
    of such controls.

l   Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
    disclosures made by Management.

l   Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
    obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the
    Group and its associate to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
    attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are
    inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
    However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to cease to continue as a going concern.

l   Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and
    whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
    presentation.

l   Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
    Group and its associate of which we are the independent auditors and whose financial information we have audited, to express an
    opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit
    of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent
    auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such
    other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain
    solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated
financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2022 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.




192     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                           Audit Report • Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Other matter

(a) We did not audit the financial statements and other financial information, in respect of four subsidiaries, whose financial
    statements include total assets of H 16.92 crore as at 31 March 2022, and total revenues of H 8.37 crore and net cash inflows
    of H 9.74 crore for the year ended on that date. These financial statement and other financial information have been audited
    by other auditors, which financial statements, other financial information and auditors’ reports have been furnished to us by
    the management. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of H 579.53 crore for the
    year ended 31 March 2022, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of an associate, whose financial
    statements, other financial information have been audited by other auditor and whose reports have been furnished to us by the
    Management. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included
    in respect of these subsidiaries, and associate, and our report in terms of sub-sections (3) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it
    relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associate, is based solely on the reports of such other auditors.

   The subsidiaries and associate located outside India whose financial statements and other financial information have been
   prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries and which have been audited
   by other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries. The Holding Company’s
   management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India from accounting
   principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have audited
   these conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company’s management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances
   and affairs of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India is based on the report of other auditors and the conversion
   adjustments prepared by the management of the Holding Company and audited by us.

Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is
not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

1. As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2020 (the ‘Order’ or ‘CARO’), issued by the Central Government of India in
   terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on
   separate financial statements and the other financial information of the subsidiary companies incorporated in India, there are no
   matters which require reporting as specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order. The Holding Company did not have any associate
   company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India.

2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on separate
   financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries and associate as noted in the ‘other matter’ we report, to
   the extent applicable, that:

   (a) We/the other auditors whose report we have relied upon have sought and obtained all the information and explanations
       which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated
       financial statements;

   (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidation of
       the financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and reports of the
       other auditors;

   (c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other
       Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with
       by this Report are in agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated
       financial statements;

   (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
       section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

   (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2022 taken on
       record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors who are appointed under
       section 139 of the Act, of its subsidiary companies in India, none of the directors of the Group’s companies, incorporated
       in India, is disqualified as on 31 March 2022 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act. The
       Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity
       incorporated in India.




                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          193
Consolidated Financial Statements • Audit Report




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
   (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the
       Holding Company its subsidiary companies incorporated in India, and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our
       separate Report in Annexure 1 to this report. The Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India
       and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India;

   (g) In our opinion and based on the consideration of reports of other statutory auditors of the subsidiaries incorporated in
       India, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2022 has been paid/provided by the Holding Company, its
       subsidiaries incorporated in India to their directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V
       to the Act. The Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control
       over any entity incorporated in India;

   (h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit
       and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
       given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial statements as also the
       other financial information of the subsidiaries and associate as noted in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:

      i.   The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on its consolidated financial position of the
           Group and its associate, in its consolidated financial statements – Refer note 34 to the consolidated financial statements;

      ii. Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting
          standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer note 34
          to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group and its associate;

      iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
           Fund by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in India during the year ended 31 March 2022. The Holding
           Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity
           incorporated in India.

      iv. a) The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in
             India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of
             such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been advanced or loaned or
             invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds by the Holding Company
             or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the
             understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly
             lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the respective
             Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on
             behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;

           b) The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India
              whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of such
              subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either individually
              or in the aggregate) have been received by the respective Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries from any
              person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or
              otherwise, that the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest
              in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate
              Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and

           c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances performed
              by us and those performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose
              financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditors’ notice that has
              caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any material
              misstatement. The Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise
              joint control over any entity incorporated in India.




194    Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                     Audit Report • Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
      v) The final dividend proposed by the Board of directors of the Holding Company for the year ended 31 March 2021 and paid
         during the current year by the Holding Company is in compliance with section 123 of the Act.

          As stated in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Holding Company have
          proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2022, which is subject to the approval of the members of the Holding
          Company the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The amount of dividend proposed is in accordance with section 123
          of the Act to the extent applicable. There is no dividend declared or paid during the year by the subsidiary companies
          incorporated in India. The Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise
          joint control over any entity incorporated in India.



For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 22089802AHWJUA8165
Pune: 27 April 2022




                                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited        195
Consolidated Financial Statements • Audit Report




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report
of even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’)

In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Holding
Company’) as of and for the year ended 31 March 2022, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as
‘the Group’), which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.

Management’s Responsibility for internal financial controls

The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities
include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the
timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.

Auditors’ responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company’s internal financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial
Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both, issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls
operated effectively in all material respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports
referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements.

Meaning of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements

A company’s internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control with reference to
consolidated financial statements includes those policies and procedures that

1. pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
   the assets of the company;

2. provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
   accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
   only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and

3. provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
   company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.




196     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                          Audit Report • Consolidated Financial Statements




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur
and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Group , which are companies incorporated in India, have, maintained in all material respects, adequate internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March 2022, based on the internal control over financial
reporting criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.

Other matters

Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company, in so far as it relates to one subsidiary, which is incorporated
in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiary. The Holding Company did not have any associate
company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India.



For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 22089802AHWJUA8165
Pune: 27 April 2022




                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         197
Consolidated Financial Statements • Balance Sheet




Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                          As at 31 March

Particulars                                                Note No.       2022               2021



ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment                                 2         1,759.60           1,567.95
Capital work-in-progress                                      2           77.21              15.98
Investment property                                           3            51.13             52.30
Intangible assets                                             4           25.32              47.30
Intangible assets under development                           4               –                  –
Investments in associate of subsidiary                       5A        4,063.79        3,288.96
Financial assets
   Investments                                               5B        17,601.20      13,369.58
   Trade receivables                                         10               –                  –
   Loans                                                      6            4.57               5.22
   Other financial assets                                     7           61.39              26.56
Income tax assets (net)                                                  749.24             714.81
Other non-current assets                                      8          352.15             325.39
                                                                      24,745.60      19,414.05


Current assets
Inventories                                                   9        1,230.51        1,493.89
Financial assets
   Investments                                               5B         4,969.13           8,028.11
   Trade receivables                                         10         1,516.38       2,716.85
   Cash and cash equivalents                                 11          933.69             516.61
   Other bank balances                                       12           24.37              22.23
   Loans                                                      6             4.17               5.74
   Other financial assets                                     7          596.26             223.53
Other current assets                                          8         1,091.10           1,180.70
                                                                      10,365.61      14,187.66
                                                                      35,111.21      33,601.71




198      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                            Balance Sheet • Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                        Note No.             2022              2021



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                  13               289.37            289.37
Other equity                                                                                          14            29,570.28        26,984.06
Equity attributable to owners of the Company                                                                       29,859.65         27,273.43
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                 0.01              0.01
Total equity                                                                                                       29,859.66         27,273.44


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                                15               122.77            121.46
Provisions                                                                                            16                 1.30              1.98
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                        17               402.68            522.14
Government grant                                                                                                        36.00             38.65
Other non-current liabilities                                                                         18                 0.30              0.50
                                                                                                                      563.05             684.73
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
		       Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                            19               150.64            121.20
		       Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises       19             3,481.51         4,452.91
    Other financial liabilities                                                                       20               397.00            407.44
Other current liabilities                                                                             21               478.80            482.82
Provisions                                                                                            16               153.75            152.37
Government grant                                                                                                         2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                           24.15             24.15
                                                                                                                    4,688.50          5,643.54
                                                                                                                   35,111.21         33,601.71
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group                                       1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                             On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                       Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                       Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                               Dinesh Thapar                                          Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                            Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                        Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                           Company Secretary                                      Vice Chairman




                                                                                 15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           199
Consolidated Financial Statements • Statement of Profit and Loss




Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2022             2021



Revenue from contracts with customers                                                      32,135.98        27,132.90
Other operating revenue                                                                     1,008.73           608.18
Revenue from operations                                                         22         33,144.71        27,741.08
Other income                                                                    23          1,284.14         1,276.46
Total income                                                                              34,428.85        29,017.54


Expenses
Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              22,169.88       18,308.09
Purchase of traded goods                                                                     1,971.98        1,521.04
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     24             187.96         (219.48)
Employee benefits expense                                                       25          1,362.79         1,288.10
Finance costs                                                                   26               8.66             6.66
Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           27            269.76           259.37
Other expenses                                                                  28          2,215.49         1,930.92
Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (13.31)          (12.27)
Total expenses                                                                            28,173.21        23,082.43


Share of profits of associate                                                                 579.53           306.32


Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     6,835.17        6,241.43


Exceptional items                                                               29           (816.51)                  –


Profit before tax                                                                           7,651.68        6,241.43


Tax expense
    Current tax                                                                              1,667.11        1,348.10
    Deferred tax                                                                             (181.30)            36.31
Total tax expense                                                               30          1,485.81         1,384.41


Profit after tax                                                                           6,165.87         4,857.02


Profit attributable to non-controlling interest                                                     –                  –


Profit for the year                                                                        6,165.87         4,857.02




200     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Statement of Profit and Loss • Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                         Note No.              2022             2021



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                                     17.94            16.33
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                  (4.52)            (4.11)
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans - share of associate of subsidiary                                   2.39             2.80
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                                  605.59           567.27
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                  (67.61)         (65.71)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                                          (40.87)          276.65
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                  10.29           (69.63)
    Other adjustments - share of associate of subsidiary                                                                  21.13          (63.60)
    Change in foreign currency translation reserve of subsidiary                                                       (113.98)            92.95
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                                430.36            752.95


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                               6,596.23        5,609.97


Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                                 6,165.87         4,857.02
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                      –                  –
                                                                                                                      6,165.87         4,857.02
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                                 6,596.23         5,609.97
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                      –                  –
                                                                                                                      6,596.23        5,609.97


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                                            31                213.2             167.9
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group                                       1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                              On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                        Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                        Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                Dinesh Thapar                                          Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                         Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                           Company Secretary                                       Vice Chairman




                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           201
Consolidated Financial Statements • Statement of Changes in Equity




Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                          Note No.          2022             2021



At the beginning of the year                                                         289.37           289.37
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors                                 –                  –
Restated balance at the beginning of the current reporting period                    289.37           289.37
Changes in equity share capital during the year                                            –                  –
At the end of the year                                                 13           289.37            289.37




202     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                Statement of Changes in Equity • Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Contd.)
B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                Attributable to owners
                                                             Reserves and
                                                               surplus                                                   Other reserves
                                                                                                                 Foreign
                                                                                                               exchange
                                                                                        Cash                  difference    Foreign                     Share
                                                                                        flow      Costs of of subsidiary   currency                     based                        Total       Non-
                                                Note      General      Retained      hedging      hedging     on paid-up translation FVTOCI Capital payments Treasury                other controlling
Particulars                                     No.       reserve      earnings      reserve      reserve         capital   reserve reserve Reserve   reserve  shares               equity    interest



Balance as at 31 March 2020                      14       5,431.60     16,005.41          5.63    (121.81)        0.24      481.38 (413.13)          –       10.01     (26.62)   21,372.71            0.01
Profit for the year                                               –     4,857.02             –            –          –            –           –      –          –           –     4,857.02              –
Recognition of share based payments
to employees                                                      –             –            –            –          –            –           –      –        6.90          –         6.90
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                           –       (48.58)      143.27        63.75        0.03        92.92      501.56      –          –           –       752.95              –
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 March 2021                                          –     4,808.44       143.27        63.75        0.03        92.92      501.56      –        6.90          –     5,616.87              –


Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to
General reserve                                             456.00       (456.00)            –            –          –            –           –      –          –           –            –              –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                –             –            –            –          –            –           –      –          –       (5.52)       (5.52)             –
Balance as at 31 March 2021                      14       5,887.60 20,357.85           148.90      (58.06)        0.27      574.30        88.43      –       16.91     (32.14) 26,984.06              0.01


Profit for the year                                               –     6,165.87             –            –          –            –           –      –          –           –     6,165.87              –
Recognition of share based payments
to employees                                                      –             –            –            –          –            –           –      –       15.36          –        15.36              –
Recognition of capital reservce on
consolidation                                                     –             –            –            –          –            –           –   63.14         –           –        63.14              –
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                           –        36.94       (94.57)       63.99        0.01     (113.99)      537.98      –          –           –       430.36              –
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 March 2022                                          –     6,202.81       (94.57)       63.99        0.01     (113.99)      537.98   63.14      15.36          –     6,674.73              –


Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to
General reserve                                             502.00       (502.00)            –            –          –            –           –      –          –           –            –              –
Final dividend for the year ended
31 March 2021                                                     –    (4,051.14)            –            –          –            –           –      –          –           –    (4,051.14)             –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                –             –            –            –          –            –           –      –          –      (37.37)      (37.37)             –
Balance as at 31 March 2022                      14      6,389.60 22,007.52             54.33         5.93        0.28      460.31       626.41   63.14      32.27     (69.51) 29,570.28             0.01
Note: There are no changes in accounting policies or prior period errors during the current or previous year.

Summary of significant accounting
policies followed by the Group                    1


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                                                                            On behalf of the Board of Directors
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                                                                   Niraj Bajaj
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                                                                          Chairman

                                                                                               Dinesh Thapar                                                            Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                                                            Chief Financial Officer                                                  Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                                         Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                                                           Company Secretary                                                       Vice Chairman




                                                                                                                     15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                                203
Consolidated Financial Statements • Statement of Cash Flows




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                 2022                            2021



I.   Operating activities
        Profit before tax                                                                            7,651.68                        6,241.43
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
          i) Depreciation and amortisation                                              269.76                          259.37
          ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
              discarded and scrapped                                                      8.88                           13.10
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                 (4.44)                           16.15
         iv) Share based payment to employees                                           15.36                             6.90
          v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                          (3.55)                            1.19
         vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                    2.39                           (6.01)
         vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                     3.64                            0.10
        viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                     1.31                            1.18
         ix) Interest expense                                                             7.35                            5.48
                                                                                                       300.70                          297.46
        Less:
          i) Investment income included in above:
                 Interest income on fixed income securities                            275.05                            65.77
                 Interest income on fixed deposits                                      36.42                            17.87
                 Interest income on exchange traded funds                              204.68                            76.85
                 Interest income on fixed maturity plans                               388.93                          842.51
                 Profit on sale of other investments, net                              110.62                            15.74
                 Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured
                 at fair value through profit or loss                                  188.75                          254.25
                 Dividend income on other strategic investments                         45.50                                   –
                 Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of fixed
                 income securities                                                      (17.67)                          (5.57)
                                                                                      1,232.28                        1,267.42
        ii) Share of profits of associate                                              579.53                          306.32
        iii) Government grants                                                            2.65                            2.65
        iv) Exceptional item                                                           816.51                                   –
        v) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                              21.59                            1.94
                                                                                                   (2,652.56)                       (1,578.33)
                                                                                                     5,299.82                        4,960.56
        Change in assets and liabilities
          i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                        263.38                         (430.39)
          ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                                1,202.52                      (1,001.89)
         iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                             76.82                         (551.88)
         iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                        (943.47)                       1,483.52
                                                                                                       599.25                        (500.64)
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                             (0.32)                          (0.35)
        Net cash flow from operating activities before income tax                                    5,898.75                        4,459.57
              Income tax paid                                                                       (1,701.54)                      (1,339.69)
        Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                           4,197.21                        3,119.88


                                                                    Carried forward                  4,197.21                        3,119.88




204      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                               Statement of Cash Flows • Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                 2022                            2021



                                                                 Brought forward                     4,197.21                         3,119.88
II. Investing activities
         i) Sale of investments                                                      11,526.59                        3,555.72
         ii) Purchase of investments                                                (11,083.79)                     (5,888.39)
        iii) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                         (209.44)                       (351.28)
        iv) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                                 (37.37)                          (5.52)
         v) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                   (2.14)                           8.71
        vi) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)             (550.75)                       (244.06)
        vii) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment                              33.07                            5.71
       viii) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                        –                          (15.53)
                                                                                       (323.83)                     (2,934.64)
        ix) Investment income
              Interest income on fixed income securities                                275.05                           65.77
              Interest income on fixed deposits                                          36.42                           17.87
              Dividend income on other strategic investments                             45.50                                  –
                                                                                        356.97                           83.64
        (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                                     (114.00)                         (17.36)
                                                                                        242.97                           66.28


        Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                             (80.86)                       (2,868.36)


                                                                 Carried forward                     4,116.35                          251.52




                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited             205
Consolidated Financial Statements • Statement of Cash Flows




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                    2022                            2021



                                                                    Brought forward                     4,116.35                          251.52
III. Financing activities
          i) Interest expense                                                               (7.35)                          (5.48)
         ii) Deferral of sales tax deferral liability due to assessment                         –                           (5.31)
         iii) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                                 (4,048.98)                          (8.73)


    Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                 (4,056.33)                         (19.52)


IV. Change in foreign currency translation arising on consolidation                                      353.51                              0.40


    Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                              413.53                           232.40


    Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                                516.61                          285.40
    Add/(Less): Effects of exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                                3.55                            (1.19)
    Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                                        933.69                          516.61



As per our report of even date                                                                              On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                         Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                         Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                 Dinesh Thapar                                         Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                              Chief Financial Officer                               Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                        Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                            Company Secretary                                      Vice Chairman




206     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                           Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022

Corporate information

Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged
in the business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles,
electric two-wheelers etc. and parts thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets.
The registered office of the Company is located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 March 2022. The consolidated financial statements were approved for issue in
accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company on 27 April 2022.

The consolidated financial statements include results of the subsidiaries of Bajaj Auto Ltd., consolidated in accordance with
Ind AS 110 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and Ind AS 28 ‘Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures’.


                                              Country of          % Shareholding of       % Shareholding of
Name of the Company                           Incorporation       Bajaj Auto Ltd.         Non-controlling interest      Consolidated as



PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                      Indonesia           99.25%                  0.75%                         Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV          Netherlands         100.00%                 –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                    Thailand            100.00%                 –                             Subsidiary
Chetak Technology Ltd.                        India               100.00%                 –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.              India               100.00%                 –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.                         Barcelona           100.00%                 –                             Subsidiary


The consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV include 49.90% interest in Pierer Bajaj AG as an associate.

1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group

Basis of preparation

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from
time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
(including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value.

The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition of
assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Group has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months
for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

Significant accounting policies

This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.




                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           207
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group (Contd.)
1   Basis of Consolidation

    The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries, being
    the entities that it controls. Control is evidenced where the Group has power over the investee or is exposed, or has rights, to
    variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the
    investee. Power is demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, which significantly affect
    the entity returns. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company.
    Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies in line with
    accounting policies of the Group. For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit/loss for the financial year and net
    assets is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the consolidated statement of profit and loss and consolidated
    balance sheet. For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises
    a reduction to the non-controlling interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid,
    inclusive of transaction fees, being recognised in equity. In addition, upon dilution of controlling interests the difference between
    the cash received from sale or listing of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised
    in equity. The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired or disposed off during the year are included in the consolidated
    statement of profit and loss from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Intragroup
    balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in
    preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered. The financial
    statements of Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. and Bajaj Auto Spain S.L. are prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation
    into the Group financial statements.

2   Investment in associates

    Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a
    position to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies. The considerations made in determining whether
    significant influence is being exercised are similar to those necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries. Goodwill arising
    on the acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associate.

    The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in
    an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s
    share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying
    amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually.

    The Statement of Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate. Any change in OCI of
    those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the
    equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
    Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the
    interest in the associate.

    If an entity’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate (which includes any long-term interest
    that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the entity discontinues recognising its share of
    further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or
    made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share
    of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.

    The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate is shown on the face of the Statement of Profit and Loss.

    The financial statements of the associate are prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial
    statements. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. The Group
    has not identified any material adjustments during the year; in regard to the alignment of accounting policies.

    After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its
    investment in its associate. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment
    in the associate is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between
    the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

    Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair
    value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the
    retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.




208     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                          Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group (Contd.)
3   Foreign currencies

    The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the parent company’s functional currency.
    For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity
    are measured using that functional currency. The Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign
    operation the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method.

    Transactions and balances

    Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective functional currency spot rates
    at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. However, for practical reasons, the group uses an average rate if the
    average approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction.

    Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange
    at the reporting date.

    Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss
    with the exception of the following:

    Exchange differences arising on monetary items that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are
    recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the individual financial
    statements of the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the financial statements that include the foreign operation and the
    reporting entity (e.g. consolidated financial statements when the foreign operation is a subsidiary), such exchange differences are
    recognised initially in Statement of Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’). These exchange differences are reclassified from equity
    to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.

    Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those monetary items are also recorded in OCI.

    Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
    rate at the date of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated
    using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary
    items measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item
    (i.e. translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in OCI or Statement of Profit and Loss are also
    recognised in OCI or Statement of Profit and Loss, respectively).

    Group companies

    On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into INR at the rate of exchange prevailing at the
    reporting date and their Statement of Profit and Loss are translated at exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
    For practical reasons, the group uses an average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates
    the exchange rates at the date of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are
    recognised in OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is
    recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.

    Any goodwill arising in the acquisition/business combination of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and
    translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.

    Gain or loss on a subsequent disposal of any foreign operation excludes translation differences that arose before the date of
    transition but includes only translation differences arising after the transition date.

4   Taxation

    a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
       authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at
       the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.




                                                                              15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited         209
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group (Contd.)
    b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss is recognised outside Statement of
       Profit and Loss (either in OCI or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either
       in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in
       which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

    c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
       liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
       enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
       asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

       Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
       future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

    d) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets
       against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.

5   Other significant accounting policies

    Other significant accounting policies followed by the Group are exactly similar to the significant accounting policies of the parent,
    Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been reproduced here. Refer note 1 of standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. for
    the year ended 31 March 2022 for details in regard to other significant accounting policies.




210     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                       Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                    Gross block                                                 Depreciation                         Net block
                                                   As at                                           As at           As at                                     As at          As at
                                                 1 April                        Deductions/    31 March          1 April                       For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                        2021        Additions        adjustments        2022            2021    Deductions            year        2022           2022



Land freehold                                     19.97                –                  –        19.97              –            –                –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)              47.28            107.11              1.98      152.41               –            –                –           –          152.41
Buildings                                        976.00              4.30              0.36      979.94          360.79          0.22           21.70      382.27          597.67
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                  17.74              0.05                 –        17.79          14.30            –             0.76       15.06            2.73
Plant and machinery                            1,368.94             27.35             99.83    1,296.46         1,064.26        89.08           57.60     1,032.78        263.68
Computers and IT Equipment                        84.42              4.67              5.26       83.83           78.36          5.26            4.02        77.12           6.71
Dies and jigs                                    661.18             83.21              3.32       741.07         401.97          3.13           76.47      475.31          265.76
Electric installations                            74.30              0.74                 –       75.04           71.44            –             1.23       72.67            2.37
Factory equipment                                439.28             21.29              1.76      458.81          244.02          1.60           27.41      269.83          188.98
Furniture                                         44.47              2.27              0.08       46.66           28.70          0.08            3.29        31.91          14.75
Office equipment                                  54.90              3.95              0.19       58.66           38.72          0.19            3.91       42.44           16.22
Electric fittings                                 36.81              0.33              0.25       36.89           26.69          0.25            1.79       28.23            8.66
Vehicles and aircraft                            356.50            203.35             58.67       501.18         284.59         49.55           46.45      281.49          219.69
Total                                          4,181.79            458.62           171.70     4,468.71        2,613.84       149.36           244.63    2,709.11       1,759.60


Capital work-in-progress                          15.98             74.00             12.77       77.21               –            –                –           –          77.21


Ageing schedule for Capital work-in-progress

                                       Less than                                  More than
Particulars                               1 year       1-2 years    2-3 years       3 years    Total


Projects in progress                           74.94        0.34            –           1.93   77.21
Projects temporarily suspended                    –            –            –             –        –
Total                                          74.94        0.34            –          1.93    77.21




                                                                                                           15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                 211
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment (Contd.)
  Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                    Gross block                                              Depreciation                         Net block
                                                   As at                                             As at      As at                                     As at          As at
                                                 1 April                           Deductions/   31 March     1 April                       For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                        2020        Additions           adjustments       2021       2020    Deductions            year        2021           2021



Land freehold                                     19.97                –                    –       19.97          –            –                –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right–of–use assets)              47.93                –                  0.65      47.28          –            –                –           –           47.28
Buildings                                        940.49             35.51                   –      976.00     338.37            –            22.42      360.79          615.21
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                  17.39              0.35                   –       17.74       13.54           –             0.76       14.30            3.44
Plant and machinery                            1,361.60             25.40                18.06    1,368.94   1,016.80        13.37           60.83     1,064.26         304.68
Computers and IT Equipment                        81.58              3.13                 0.29      84.42       73.90         0.29            4.75       78.36            6.06
Dies and jigs                                    573.44             98.30                10.56     661.18     342.18          8.86           68.65      401.97          259.21
Electric installations                            74.29              0.01                   –       74.30       70.04           –             1.40       71.44            2.86
Factory equipment                                414.61             26.03                 1.36     439.28     218.07          0.95           26.90      244.02          195.26
Furniture                                         42.16              2.63                 0.32      44.47       25.96         0.31            3.05       28.70           15.77
Office equipment                                  45.65              9.68                 0.43      54.90       36.46         0.43            2.69       38.72           16.18
Electric fittings                                 33.16              3.80                 0.15      36.81       25.02         0.15            1.82       26.69           10.12
Vehicles and aircraft                            369.01             10.74                23.25     356.50     258.91         13.20           38.88      284.59           71.91
Total                                          4,021.28            215.58                55.07   4,181.79    2,419.25        37.56          232.15    2,613.84        1,567.95


Capital work–in–progress                          46.54             14.45                45.01      15.98          –            –                –           –          15.98


Ageing schedule for Capital work-in-progress

                                       Less than                                     More than
Particulars                               1 year       1-2 years    2-3 years          3 years   Total


Projects in progress                           13.82        0.23            1.73          0.20   15.98
Projects temporarily suspended                     -           –               -             -       -
Total                                          13.82        0.23            1.73          0.20   15.98




212           Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                            Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                        2022               2021



Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                                                    69.66              69.66
Additions                                                                                                                                               –                    –
Closing balance                                                                                                                                    69.66              69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                                                    17.36              15.76
Depreciation charge                                                                                                                                  1.17              1.60
Closing balance                                                                                                                                    18.53              17.36
Net carrying amount                                                                                                                                51.13              52.30
See note 3 of standalone financial statements for the following disclosures in regard to investment property:
i) Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
ii) Contractual obligations
iii) Leasing arrangements
iv) Fair value



4 Intangible assets
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                               Gross block                                                Amortisation                           Net block
                                               As at                                         As at         As at                                         As at          As at
                                             1 April                   Deductions/       31 March        1 April                         For the     31 March       31 March
Particulars                                    2021       Additions    adjustments           2022          2021     Deductions             year          2022           2022



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired          95.56              –              –          95.56         48.26             –             21.98         70.24           25.32
Total intangible assets                       95.56               –              –          95.56         48.26             –             21.98         70.24          25.32


Intangible assets under development               –               –              –              –               –           –                 –             –                –



      Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                               Gross block                                                Amortisation                           Net block
                                               As at                                         As at         As at                                         As at          As at
                                             1 April                   Deductions/       31 March        1 April                         For the     31 March       31 March
Particulars                                    2020       Additions    adjustments           2021          2020     Deductions             year          2021           2021



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired          66.38          29.18              –           95.56        23.29             –             24.97         48.26           47.30
Total intangible assets                       66.38           29.18              –          95.56         23.29             –             24.97         48.26          47.30


Intangible assets under development           13.65           15.53          29.18              –               –           –                 –             –                –




                                                                                                 15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                       213
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)

                                                                                        Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                             As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                   2022              2021         2022              2021


(A) Investments in associate of subsidiary
    5,204,864 shares of Euro 100 each in KTM AG                                                  –            2,611.55          –                  –
    Goodwill on above investment                                                                 –             677.41           –                  –
    49,900 shares of Euro 1 each in Pierer Bajaj AG                                        4,063.79                 –           –                  –
                                                                                           4,063.79        3,288.96             –                  –


(B) Other investments
Investment carried at FVTOCI
    In Shares                                                                              1,898.08        1,274.23             –                  –
Investment carried at amortised cost
    In Government bonds and securities                                                       857.47            659.54           –                  –
    In Bonds and debentures                                                                3,583.73       1,803.30         250.93                  –
    In Fixed deposits                                                                      1,115.00                 –           –             107.84
    In Exchange traded funds                                                               5,515.81        2,320.75             –                  –
    In Fixed maturity plans                                                                  755.11        3,614.56       3,903.65       7,360.80


Investment carried at fair value through profit or loss
    In Mutual fund units                                                                   3,876.00        3,697.20        814.55             559.47
                                                                                          17,601.20      13,369.58        4,969.13           8,028.11
                                                                                          21,664.99      16,658.54        4,969.13           8,028.11
Notes to Investments
1. See note 5B of standalone financial statements for details of ‘Other investments’.
2. See footnotes to note 5 of standalone financial statements.



6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)

                                                                                             Non-current                      Current
                                                                                             As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                   2022              2021         2022              2021


Employee loans                                                                                 4.57              5.22         4.17               5.74
                                                                                               4.57              5.22         4.17               5.74




214       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                             Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2022                2021               2022               2021


Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                                                                       0.02                    –                  –                    –
Security deposits                                                                                            27.04              26.56                    –                    –
Interest receivable on investments                                                                           34.33                    –            129.71              50.04
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                                                                       –                   –              0.55                   0.72
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments                                                                 –                   –             80.53             121.39
PSI Receivable                                                                                                    –                   –           345.78                      –
Other advances                                                                                                    –                   –             39.69              51.38
                                                                                                             61.39              26.56             596.26              223.53
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally (see note 35).


8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2022                2021               2022               2021


Capital advances                                                                                            269.73             238.83                    –                    –
Security deposits                                                                                              6.78               6.65                   –                    –
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
    Advances to related parties [See note 35]                                                                     –                   –             11.32                   8.81
    Other advances                                                                                           22.94              23.79              115.16             216.08
    Doubtful advances                                                                                          8.13               8.13                   –                    –
                                                                                                             31.07               31.92            126.48              224.89
    Provision for doubtful advances                                                                            8.13               8.13                   –                    –
                                                                                                             22.94              23.79             126.48              224.89


Gratuity asset [See note 38 of standalone financial statements]                                              12.92              16.34                    –                    –
VAT refund receivable                                                                                        39.78               39.78            129.66              130.31
GST credit/refund receivable                                                                                      –                   –           507.59              764.33
EV subsidy receivable                                                                                             –                   –             21.06                     –
Export incentives receivable
    Unsecured considered good                                                                                     –                   –           306.31                61.17
    Doubtful                                                                                                   0.21               0.21                   –                    –
                                                                                                               0.21               0.21            306.31                61.17
    Provision for doubtful export incentives                                                                   0.21               0.21                   –                    –
                                                                                                                  –                   –           306.31                61.17
                                                                                                            352.15             325.39            1,091.10           1,180.70




                                                                                                  15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                           215
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                       2022              2021



Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 31.13 crore (Previous year H 84.31 crore))                                  591.72             664.26
Work-in-progress                                                                                                                  70.11             85.50
Finished goods                                                                                                                  541.79             714.36
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                              25.67              27.07
Loose tools                                                                                                                        1.22              2.70
                                                                                                                               1,230.51        1,493.89

Amount recognised in profit and loss
Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 6.74 crore [Previous
year – H 47.75 crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.

10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)

                                                                                               Non-current                         Current
                                                                                               As at 31 March                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                    2022             2021              2022              2021


Unsecured, considered good                                                                         –                –          1,516.38        2,716.85
Receivables which have significant increase in credit risk                                     39.66            44.10                –                  –
                                                                                               39.66            44.10          1,516.38        2,716.85
Allowance for bad and doubtful receivable [See note 34]                                        39.66            44.10                –                  –
                                                                                                   –                –          1,516.38        2,716.85


                                                                               Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                  Less than      6 months                                      More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                               6 months         - 1 year 1 - 2 years         2 -3 years       3 years            Total


i)   Undisputed trade receivables – considered good                1,484.52           19.45            11.83            0.02         0.56         1,516.38
ii) Undisputed trade receivables –
    which have significant increase in credit risk                      4.29           0.27             1.86            0.36         2.68            9.46
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                          –               –               –              –               –             –
iv) Disputed trade receivables -
    which have significant increase in credit risk                      0.33           0.83             5.27            4.75        19.02           30.20
                                                                    1,489.14          20.55            18.96            5.13       22.26       1,556.04


                                                                               Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                  Less than      6 months                                      More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2021                               6 months         - 1 year 1 - 2 years         2 -3 years       3 years            Total


i)   Undisputed trade receivables – considered good                2,658.76           52.25             5.28            0.48         0.08      2,716.85
ii) Undisputed trade receivables –
    which have significant increase in credit risk                         –           4.73             3.57            0.81         2.03            11.14
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                          –               –               –              –               –             –
iv) Disputed trade receivables -
    which have significant increase in credit risk                      3.61           4.61            10.44        10.98            3.32           32.96
                                                                   2,662.37           61.59            19.29        12.27            5.43         2,760.95


216      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                     Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                      2022             2021



Balances with banks                                                                                            933.64            516.58
Cash on hand                                                                                                      0.05             0.03
                                                                                                               933.69            516.61



12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

                                                                                 Non-current                       Current
                                                                                 As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                      2022              2021          2022             2021



Unclaimed dividend accounts                                                          –                –         24.37             22.21
Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months                       0.02                –              –                 –
Deposits with residual maturity for less than twelve months                          –                –              –             0.02
                                                                                  0.02                –         24.37             22.23
Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' [See note 7]                     (0.02)               –              –                 –
                                                                                     –                –         24.37             22.23



13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                      2022             2021



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                         300.00            300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                         289.37            289.37
                                                                                                               289.37            289.37


a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                             As at 31 March 2022            As at 31 March 2021
Particulars                                                                       Nos.       D In Crore          Nos.        D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                               289,367,020            289.37   289,367,020           289.37
Issued during the year                                                               –                –              –                 –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                         289,367,020            289.37   289,367,020           289.37




                                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           217
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
13 Equity share capital (Contd.)
b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

    The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one
    vote per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors
    and approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
    the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
    The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.

c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                                     As at 31 March 2022                   As at 31 March 2021
Particulars                                                                                                Nos.        % Holding                 Nos.        % Holding



Equity shares of J 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                    96,727,050             33.43%         96,727,050            33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                                            26,281,400               9.08%        26,281,400               9.08%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                                                 20,757,508               7.17%       22,997,485               7.95%

d. Shareholding of promoters
                                                                                                                                                             % change
                                                                                                                                           % of total           during
Promotor name                                                                                                      No. of shares             shares           the year



For 2021-22
Rahulkumar Bajaj*                                                                                                                 –            0.00%            (0.36%)
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                                6,020             0.00%              0.00%
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                              200,000              0.07%             (0.24%)
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                                42,622              0.01%              0.00%
Rajiv Bajaj**                                                                                                             754,200              0.26%              0.26%
Sanjiv Bajaj**                                                                                                            327,224               0.11%              0.11%
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                       96,727,050            33.43%               0.00%
* Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj, one of the promoters of Bajaj Auto Ltd. expired on 12 February 2022. Shares held by Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj in individual capacity, and
previously shown as part of holdings of promoters, are in the process of transmission. As per regulation 31A (6) of SEBI LODR Regulations, Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj
automatically ceases to be a promoter and his holdings would hereafter be shown under ‘Promoter Group - (Estate of Rahulkumar Bajaj)’ category until his shares are
transmitted to the respective legal heirs, who would all be Promoters/Promoter Group.
** Shri Rajiv Rahulkumar Bajaj and Shri Sanjiv Rahulkumar Bajaj, sons of Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj have now succeeded as Promoters and their holdings which earlier
were shown under ‘Promoter Group’ category have got transferred to ‘Promoter’ Category.

                                                                                                                                                             % change
                                                                                                                                           % of total           during
Promotor name                                                                                                      No. of shares             shares           the year



For 2020-21
Rahulkumar Bajaj                                                                                                        1,048,796              0.36%            (0.62%)
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                                6,020             0.00%              0.00%
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                              906,954              0.31%            (0.22%)
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                                42,622              0.01%                    –
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                       96,727,050            33.43%                     –




218       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                             Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
14 Other equity
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                              2022              2021



Reserves and surplus:
General reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                               5,887.60       5,431.60
Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                                                          502.00            456.00
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                    6,389.60        5,887.60


Retained earnings
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                             20,357.85       16,005.41
Profit for the year                                                                                                   6,165.87       4,857.02
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
       Actuarial gains/(losses) of gratuity (net of tax)                                                                 13.42             12.22
       Adjustments on account of change in share of net assets of associate/subsidiary                                  23.52            (60.80)
Less: Appropriations
       Transfer to General reserve                                                                                     502.00            456.00
       Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2021                                                                4,051.14                 –
Total appropriations                                                                                                  4,553.14           456.00
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                   22,007.52       20,357.85


Other reserves:
Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 33 of standalone financial statements]                                              54.33            148.90
Costs of hedging reserve [See note 33 of standalone financial statements]                                                 5.93           (58.06)
Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid-up capital                                                              0.28              0.27
Foreign currency translation reserve                                                                                   460.31            574.30
Capital Reserve                                                                                                          63.14                 –


FVTOCI reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                 88.43            (413.13)
Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                                                         537.98            501.56
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                      626.41             88.43


Share based payment reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                  16.91             10.01
Add: Recognised during the year                                                                                          15.36              6.90
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                       32.27              16.91


Treasury shares
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                (32.14)           (26.62)
Add: Changes during the year                                                                                           (37.37)             (5.52)
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                       (69.51)           (32.14)
                                                                                                                    29,570.28       26,984.06




                                                                                15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited             219
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
14 Other equity (Contd.)
Nature and purpose of reserve:

General reserve

General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the
Companies Act, 2013. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Retained earnings

Retained earnings is a free reserve. This is the accumulated profit earned by the Company till date, less transfer to general reserve,
dividend and other distributions made to the shareholders.

Cash flow hedging reserve and Costs of hedging reserve

It represents the effective portion of the fair value of forward/option contracts designated as cashflow hedge.

Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid-up capital

This reserve represents the foreign exchange difference due to rate on the date of receipt vis-à-vis date of share certificate issued.

Foreign currency translation reserve

This reserve represents the foreign exchange differences on converting subsidiaries financials into INR, including other adjustments
on consolidation.

FVTOCI reserve

The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive
income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity.

Share based payment reserve

Share based payment reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 ‘Share Based Payments’ on the employee stock option scheme
operated by the Company for its employees.

Treasury shares

The reserve for shares of the Company held by the Bajaj Auto ESOP Trust (ESOP Trust). Company has issued employees stock option
scheme for its employees. The equity shares of the Company have been purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to transfer in the
name of employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.




15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                       2022                2021



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                122.77               121.46
                                                                                                                                                122.77               121.46
The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. [see note 34].




220       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                            Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)

                                                                                                           Non-current                       Current
                                                                                                           As at 31 March                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                 2022               2021        2022             2021



Provision for employee benefits
[See note 38 of standalone financial statements]
Provision for gratuity                                                                                           –                  –         –                  –
Provision for compensated absences                                                                               –                  –     127.56           129.66
Provision for welfare scheme                                                                                 1.30               1.98        0.56             0.67
                                                                                                             1.30               1.98      128.12           130.33
Other provisions
Provision for warranties
[See footnote to note 16 of standalone financial statements]                                                     –                  –      25.63            22.04
                                                                                                             1.30               1.98      153.75           152.37



17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                          As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                2022             2021



Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                  480.23           620.73
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                        77.55            98.59
                                                                                                                                          402.68           522.14
See note 17 of standalone financial statements for detailed break-up of deferred tax liabilities/assets and movement in deferred taxes.



18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                          As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                2022             2021



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                                                0.30             0.50
                                                                                                                                            0.30             0.50




                                                                                                 15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited             221
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
19 Trade payables
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                              As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                    2022              2021



Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                                                             150.64            121.20
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                                                      3,481.51         4,452.91
                                                                                                                                            3,632.15           4,574.11



                                                                                                    Dues - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                                    Less than          1-2          2-3     More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                                  Unbilled         Not due          1 year        years        years       3 years            Total



i.   Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)                            –       150.64                 –           –            –               –        150.64
ii. Others                                                              830.51       2,321.70            322.15        3.11         0.69           3.35      3,481.51
iii. Disputed dues - MSME                                                      –              –               –           –            –               –                –
iv. Disputed dues - Others                                                     –              –              –            –            –               –                –
                                                                        830.51       2,472.34            322.15        3.11         0.69           3.35      3,632.15



                                                                                                    Dues - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                                    Less than          1-2          2-3     More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2021                                  Unbilled         Not due          1 year        years        years       3 years            Total



i.   Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)                            –        121.20                –           –            –               –        121.20
ii. Others                                                            1,237.57       2,953.75            251.82        6.34         0.58           2.85      4,452.91
iii. Disputed dues - MSME                                                      –              –               –           –            –               –                –
iv. Disputed dues - Others                                                     –              –              –            –            –               –                –
                                                                      1,237.57       3,074.95            251.82        6.34         0.58           2.85        4,574.11



20 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                              As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                    2022              2021



Security deposits                                                                                                                              27.11             21.50
Unclaimed dividend                                                                                                                             24.37             22.21
Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                                                                                 17.57             32.00
Employee benefits payable                                                                                                                     192.77            178.55
Other payables                                                                                                                                135.18            153.18
                                                                                                                                              397.00            407.44
Refer note 32 of standalone financial statements for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.




222       Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                         Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
21 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2022              2021



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                          0.27              0.39
Advance received from customers                                                                                    301.92            408.03
Taxes and duties payable                                                                                             97.31             47.05
Other payables                                                                                                       79.30             27.35
                                                                                                                   478.80            482.82


22 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2022              2021



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products                                                                                                 32,135.98       27,132.90


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                          29.25             18.67
Export incentives                                                                                                  551.27             245.59
PSI                                                                                                                 30.50                   –
Royalty                                                                                                            174.58             153.20
Technical know how fees                                                                                               2.65                  –
Rent [See note 40 of standalone financial statements]                                                                26.67             29.45
Insurance claims                                                                                                      0.49              0.25
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                               91.86             55.08
Government grants                                                                                                     2.65              2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                    98.81             103.29
                                                                                                                  1,008.73            608.18
                                                                                                                33,144.71        27,741.08


Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                           15,201.89       14,445.62
Outside India                                                                                                   16,934.09        12,687.28
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                      32,135.98       27,132.90


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                 32,407.71        27,374.31
Adjustments:
      Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                        (242.90)           (183.94)
      Sales promotion expenses                                                                                     (28.83)            (57.47)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                            32,135.98       27,132.90



                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          223
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
23 Other income
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                     2022                2021



Investment income
Interest income on fixed income securities                                                    275.05                65.77
Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                   (17.67)              (5.57)
Interest income on fixed deposits                                                               36.42               17.87
Interest income on exchange traded funds                                                      204.68                76.85
Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                       388.93              842.51
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                        887.41             997.43


Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                  45.50                    –


Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                           188.75              254.25
Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                       110.62               15.74
                                                                                             1,232.28           1,267.42
Others
Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                21.59                 1.94
Tax refunds/credits                                                                                 –                 7.10
Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                  30.27                    –
                                                                                                51.86                9.04


                                                                                             1,284.14           1,276.46



24 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

                                                                                                          (Increase)/
Particulars                                                                     2022            2021        decrease



Inventories at the end of the year                                              70.11           85.50               15.39
Work-in-progress                                                               541.79         714.36              172.57
Finished goods                                                                 611.90         799.86               187.96


Inventories at the beginning of the year                                        85.50           57.60             (27.90)
Work-in-progress                                                               714.36         522.78             (191.58)
Finished goods                                                                 799.86         580.38             (219.48)
                                                                               187.96        (219.48)




224      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                         Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
25 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                          2022             2021



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees                                                            1,174.30         1,137.33
Contribution to provident and other funds                                                           92.03             61.32
Share based payment to employees                                                                     15.36             6.90
Staff welfare expenses                                                                               81.10            82.55
                                                                                                  1,362.79        1,288.10
See note 38 and 39 of standalone financial statements.



26 Finance costs
                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                          2022             2021



Interest expense                                                                                      7.35             5.48
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                               1.31              1.18
                                                                                                      8.66             6.66



27 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                          2022             2021



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                      244.63           232.15
Depreciation on investment property                                                                   1.17             1.60
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                                   21.98            24.97
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                        1.98             0.65
                                                                                                    269.76          259.37




                                                            15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited            225
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
28 Other expenses
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                             2022             2021



Stores and tools consumed                                                                             132.43           116.05
Power, fuel and water                                                                                 108.01             91.34
Rent                                                                                                    17.66            17.76
Repairs to buildings                                                                                   38.42             30.12
Repairs to machinery                                                                                  105.59             72.74
Other repairs                                                                                           17.62            13.96
Insurance                                                                                               11.03             6.57
Rates and taxes                                                                                         17.50            24.46
Payment to auditor                                                                                       2.17             1.85
Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                  0.93             0.99
Commission to non-executive directors                                                                    2.28             6.98
Travelling expenses                                                                                    12.24              5.75
Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                490.63           395.79
Loss on exchange fluctuations                                                                               –            22.73
Packing material consumed                                                                             542.22           364.24
Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                       269.84           204.53
Advertisement                                                                                         168.06            247.91
Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                            103.39           103.66
Sales promotion expenses                                                                               43.01             42.37
Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                             –             3.00
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                  128.00           128.25
Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                             0.02             0.62
Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                           8.88            13.10
Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)         (4.44)            16.15
                                                                                                    2,215.49         1,930.92




226     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                        Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities
                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                 2022               2021



a) Detail of spends
    i)   Gross amount required to be spent by the Group during the year                                                                    128.00            126.91
    ii) Amount of expenditure incurred                                                                                                     128.00            128.25
    iii) Shortfall at the end of the year                                                                                                        –                   –
    iv) Total of previous years shortfall                                                                                                        –                   –
    v) Reason for shortfall                                                                                                                    NA                   NA
    vi) Nature of CSR activities
              Poverty, Health, Sanitation, Water                                                                                            35.58             55.84
              Education, Special Education, Vocation, Livelihoods                                                                           22.31              22.93
              Environment, Soil And Water, Protection of Flora and fauna                                                                     8.58              28.93
              Heritage, Art, Culture, Handicrafts, Public Libraries                                                                          0.28               1.75
              Veterans, War Widows, Dependents                                                                                               1.00                    –
              Tech Incubator Within Academic Institution approved by Central Govt.                                                               –             10.00
              Rural Development                                                                                                              4.38               3.94
              Gender/Women, Orphans, Homes and Hostels, Day Care                                                                              3.18              0.63
              Others (including provision for unspent)                                                                                      52.69               4.23
			Total                                                                                                                                   128.00            128.25
			           No funds relating to other than identified and ongoing projects are required to be
			           transferred to specified funds.


b) Amount spent in cash during the year on:
    i)   Construction/acquisition of any asset                                                                                                   –                   –
    ii) On purposes other than (i) above                                                                                                   128.00            128.25
                                                                                                                                           128.00            128.25



29 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                 2022               2021



PSI scheme                                                                                                                               (315.28)                    –
Gain on fair valuation of investment                                                                                                     (501.23)                    –
                                                                                                                                         (816.51)                    –
PSI scheme: This is amount receivable from State Government of Maharashtra under Package Scheme of Incentive 2007 (PSI), for the period April 2015 to March 2021.
Gain on fair valuation of investment: Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIHBV), a 100% subsidiary of the parent Company, held 47.99% stake in KTM AG.
BAIHBV, as on 29 September 2021, swapped 46.50% stake in KTM AG for 49.90% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG. The resultant gain in fair value of H 501.23 crore is shown
as an exceptional item.




                                                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                    227
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
30 Tax expense
                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                          2022             2021



(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                               1,667.11        1,348.10


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                          (2.93)            (3.17)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                   (178.37)            39.48
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                              (181.30)            36.31


Tax expenses                                                                                     1,485.81         1,384.41


(b) Reconciliation of tax expenses and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                7,651.68         6,241.43
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year - 25.168%)                                  1.925.78         1,570.84
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                                 32.22            33.04
    –   Disallowance of estimated expenditure to earn tax exempt income                                  –                  –
    –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                  (4.68)            (0.47)
    –   Rate difference on account of fair value of mutual funds                                         –                  –
    –   Others                                                                                        4.88             1.73


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Profits of subsidiaries not taxable in India                                              (290.18)           (76.11)
    –   Reversal in deferred tax due to tax rate reduction                                               –                  –
    –   Tax-free interest                                                                                –            (0.16)
    –   Difference in tax rate on account of dividend received from subsidiary                           –                  –
    –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                  (11.45)                  –
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                         (109.48)          (64.93)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                 (60.51)          (78.54)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                               (0.77)            (0.99)
Tax expense                                                                                      1,485.81         1,384.41




228     Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                  Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
31 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                   2022            2021



a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                                        6,165.87        4,857.02
    Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                                289,367,020     289,367,020
    Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)                                  221,458          122,242
    Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                            289,145,562     289,244,778
b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                                   213.2            167.9
    Face value per share H                                                                                                     10.0             10.0


32 Notes to these consolidated financial statements are intended to serve as a means of informative disclosure and a guide to better
    understanding of the consolidated position of the companies. Recognising this purpose, the Group has disclosed only such notes
    from the individual financial statements, which fairly present the needed disclosures.


33 Ratios
                                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                           Remarks                     Numerator                    Denominator                     2022           2021



(a) Current ratio                                                 Current assets              Current liabilities               2.21            2.51
(b) Debt equity ratio                 Not applicable
(c) Debt service coverage ratio       Not applicable
(d) Return on equity ratio                                        Profit after tax            Avg. net worth                  21.6%           19.9%
(e) Inventory turnover ratio                                      Material cost               Avg. inventory                   17.86          15.34
(f) Trade receivables                                             Revenue from contracts                                       15.18          12.22
    turnover ratio                                                with customers              Avg. trade receivables
(g) Trade payables                    Change is due to                                                                          7.23            4.72
    turnover ratio                    increase in material cost   Purchases                   Trade payables
(h) Net capital turnover ratio                                    Total income                Avg. working capital              4.84           5.32
(i) Net profit ratio                                              Profit after tax            Total income                    17.9%           16.7%
(j) Return on capital employed                                    Profit before tax           Avg. capital employed           26.2%           24.9%
(k) Return on investments                                         Profit before tax           Avg. net worth                  26.8%           25.5%




                                                                                      15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited          229
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
34 Other disclosures
Other notes and disclosures to be inserted in the consolidated financial statements are similar to those of standalone financial
statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been repeated here.

The relevant note references in the standalone financial statements are given below:
                                                                                                                Note Reference of
                                                                                                                standalone financial
Particulars                                                                                                     statements



Fair value measurement                                                                                           Note 32
Financial risk management                                                                                        Note 33
Capital management                                                                                               Note 34 (a)
Dividends distributed and proposed                                                                               Note 34 (b)
Contingent liabilities                                                                                           Note 35
Capital commitments                                                                                              Note 36
Employee benefits                                                                                                Note 38
Lease                                                                                                            Note 40
Expenditure incurred on Research and Development                                                                 Note 41
Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)                                                               Note 43
Estimation of uncertainties relating to COVID-19                                                                 Note 44
Dues to micro , small and medium enterprises                                                                     Note 45

There are no changes arising out of inclusion of the subsidiaries/associate amounts in the above disclosures.

35 Consolidated related party transactions are same as related party transactions of standalone Bajaj Auto Ltd.




230      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                           Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
36 Investment in an associate
The Group held 47.99% interest in KTM AG, Austria which was swapped for 49.90% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG on 29 September 2021.

Pierer Bajaj AG (formerly: PTW Holding AG) acts exclusively as the holding company of Pierer Mobility AG. The Pierer Mobility Group
is Europe’s leading ‘Powered Two-Wheeler’ (PTW) manufacturer with a focus on highly innovative sports motorcycles and electric
mobility. With its KTM, HUSQVARNA Motorcycles, and GASGAS motorcycle brands, it is one of the technology and market leaders in
Europe, especially when it comes to premium motorcycles.

Pierer Bajaj AG is a private entity that is not listed on any public exchange. The Group’s interest is in Pierer Bajaj AG.

The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in Pierer Bajaj AG (in Euro, which is its
functional currency):
                                                                                                                                (Euro in Million)

                                                                                                 31 Dec 2021                 31 Dec 2020
Particulars                                                                                     Pierer Bajaj AG                KTM AG



Current assets                                                                                             1,040.91                     666.37
Non-current assets                                                                                          992.81                      911.20
Current liabilities                                                                                          618.80                     391.75
Non-current liabilities                                                                                      649.46                     550.85
Equity                                                                                                      765.46                      634.97


Revenue                                                                                                    2,041.73                    1,413.98
Cost of sales                                                                                            (1,448.63)                  (1,012.77)
Gross profit                                                                                                593.10                      401.21
Selling and racing expenses                                                                                (237.85)                    (192.30)
Research and development expenses                                                                           (33.33)                     (15.49)
Infrastructure and administration expenses                                                                 (129.05)                     (86.60)
Other operating expenses                                                                                       (1.99)                     (0.29)
Other operating income                                                                                          0.74                        0.13
Share of profit of associates                                                                                   1.67                      (1.36)
Result from operating activities                                                                            193.29                      105.30
Interest income                                                                                                 1.86                        1.52
Interest expenses                                                                                            (12.86)                    (12.98)
Other financial result                                                                                          9.10                       (3.15)
Profit before tax                                                                                           191.39                       90.69
Tax expense                                                                                                 (48.72)                     (19.48)
Profit for the year (continuing operations)                                                                 142.67                       71.21
Total comprehensive income for the year (continuing operations)                                             150.42                       67.92
The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments.




                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited              231
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
37 Segment information
Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2022
The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.
                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                                            Automotive     Investments     Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                                         33,271.47         1,157.38      34,428.85
Inter segment sales and other income                                                             –               –                  –
Total revenue                                                                           33,271.47         1,157.38      34,428.85
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 32,135.98 crore


Segment result                                                                            6,505.57        1,154.77        7,660.34
Finance costs                                                                                 8.66               –             8.66
Tax expense                                                                                      –               –        1,485.81
Non-controlling interest                                                                         –               –                  –
Profit for the year                                                                       6,496.91        1,154.77        6,165.87

Segment assets                                                                             7,512.66      22,785.52       30,298.18
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                    4,063.79               –        4,063.79
Unallocated corporate assets                                                                     –               –          749.24
Total assets                                                                             11,576.45      22,785.52        35,111.21

Segment liabilities                                                                       4,663.30               –        4,663.30
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                                –               –            24.15
Total liabilities                                                                         4,663.30               –        4,687.45

Capital employed                                                                          6,913.15      22,785.52       30,423.76

Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                        4,687.45
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
		 Sales tax deferral                                                                                                       122.77
		 Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                 402.68
		 Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                                 38.65
Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                                    5,251.55

Capital expenditure                                                                         458.62               –          458.62
Depreciation and write downs                                                                269.76               –          269.76
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                                    (4.44)              –            (4.44)

 (b) Geographic segment
                                                                                                           Rest of
Particulars                                                                                  India       the world    Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                                          17,419.86      17,008.99       34,428.85
Segment assets                                                                           29,913.52         5,197.69       35,111.21
Capital expenditure                                                                         458.60            0.02          458.62


232      Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                      Notes to Financial Statements • Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
37 Segment information (Contd.)
Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2021
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                                             Automotive       Investments     Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                                           27,750.12         1,267.42        29,017.54
Inter segment sales and other income                                                               –                –                  –
Total revenue                                                                             27,750.12         1,267.42        29,017.54
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 27,132.90 crore


Segment result                                                                              4,983.82         1,264.27         6,248.09
Finance costs                                                                                   6.66                –              6.66
Tax expense                                                                                        –                –         1,384.41
Non-controlling interest                                                                           –                –                  –
Profit for the year                                                                        4,977.16         1,264.27          4,857.02


Segment assets                                                                              8,097.89        21,500.05        29,597.94
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                      3,288.96                –         3,288.96
Unallocated corporate assets                                                                       –                –           714.81
Total assets                                                                              11,386.85        21,500.05        33,601.71


Segment liabilities                                                                         5,619.22                –         5,619.22
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                                  –                –             24.15
Total liabilities                                                                          5,619.22                 –         5,643.37


Capital employed                                                                           5,767.63        21,500.05        27,958.34


Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                            5,643.37
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
		 Sales tax deferral                                                                                                           121.46
		 Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                     522.14
		 Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                                     41.30
Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                                        6,328.27


Capital expenditure                                                                          215.58                 –           215.58
Depreciation and write downs                                                                 259.37                 –           259.37
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                                      16.15                –             16.15

(b) Geographic segment
                                                                                                             Rest of
Particulars                                                                                    India       the world     Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                                           16,330.26        12,687.28        29,017.54
Segment assets                                                                             29,151.11         4,450.60        33,601.71
Capital expenditure                                                                           212.83             2.75           215.58




                                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited           233
Consolidated Financial Statements • Notes to Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.)
38 Disclosure in terms of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
                                              Net Assets (i.e. total assets                                                  Share in other                           Share in total
                                                minus total liabilities)            Share in Profit or (Loss)             comprehensive income                    comprehensive income
                                                   As a % of                           As a % of                    As a % of consolidated                  As a % of consolidated
                                                consolidated          Amount        consolidated         Amount      other comprehensive         Amount      total comprehensive         Amount
Particulars                                       net assets      (J In Crore)      profit or loss   (J In Crore)                  income    (J In Crore)                  income    (J In Crore)


1. Parent:
     Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                  89.31%        26,668.80             81.40%        5,018.87                 121.02%         520.82                    83.98%       5,539.69


2. Subsidiaries (Indian) :
     Chetak Technology Ltd.                                 –            0.97             (0.07%)          (4.03)                       –              –                   (0.06%)         (4.03)
     Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.                  0.01%             3.05             (0.04%)          (1.95)                       –              –                   (0.03%)         (1.95)


3. Subsidiaries (Foreign):
     PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                –            0.99                   –          (0.03)                  (0.06%)         (0.27)                       –          (0.30)
     Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV             14.81%         4,421.77             18.70%        1,152.71                 (13.95%)        (60.04)                   16.57%       1,092.67
     Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                        0.03%             7.70              0.01%            0.54                    0.02%           0.08                    0.01%           0.62
     Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.                             0.02%             4.81                   –          (0.24)                       –              –                        –          (0.24)
     Add/(Less): Non-controlling interest
     in all subsidiaries                                    –           (0.01)                  –               –                       –              –                        –              –
     Add/(Less): Inter-company eliminations           (4.18%)       (1,248.43)                  –               –                  (7.03%)       (30.23)                   (0.47%)       (30.23)
Total                                                100.00%       29,859.65            100.00%        6,165.87                  100.00%         430.36                  100.00%       6,596.23



39 Miscellaneous
a. There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.

b. Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.

c. The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Group for holding
   any Benami property.

d. The Group has performed the assessment to identify transactions with struck off companies as at 31 March 2022 and identified
   one company with which the transaction value is below rounding off norms adopted by the Company (refund of deposit).

e. The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.

f.     The Group has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties
       (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person.

g. No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind
   of funds by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding,
   whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
   persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any
   guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

h. No funds have been received by the Group from any person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the
   understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Group shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in
   other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’)
   or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.


As per our report of even date                                                                                                                  On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                                  Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                                  Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                    Dinesh Thapar                                                               Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                                                 Chief Financial Officer                                                     Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 089802                                                           Dr. J Sridhar                                                              Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                                               Company Secretary                                                            Vice Chairman



234           Bajaj Auto Limited • 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                                                            Silent Features • Consolidated Financial Statements




Salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2022
Form AOC-1

In accordance with section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the salient features of the financial statements of
subsidiaries is given below:
                                                                                              Bajaj Auto
                                                                                           International
                                                                PT. Bajaj Auto             Holdings BV.              Bajaj Auto              Chetak     Bajaj Auto Consumer            Bajaj Auto
Particulars                                                         Indonesia            (Consolidated)          (Thailand) Ltd.     Technology Ltd.             Finance Ltd.          Spain S.L.



a The date since when subsidiary was acquired                20 February 2008         20 February 2008        20 December 2019       04 October 2021      06 December 2021         05 August 2021
                                                            (being the effective     (being the effective
                                                           date of demerger of      date of demerger of
                                                                 erstwhile BAL)           erstwhile BAL)
b Reporting period for the subsidiary                           1 April 2021 to          1 April 2021 to       1 January 2020 to   04 October 2021 to   06 December 2021 to      05 August 2021 to
                                                                31 March 2022            31 March 2022        31 December 2020         31 March 2022          31 March 2022     31 December 2021
c Reporting currency as on the last date of the relevant       IDR (Indonesian                      Euro         THB (Thai Baht)                 INR                     INR                 Euro
  financial year in the case of foreign subsidiaries                   Rupiah)
d Exchange rate as on the last date of the relevant        1 USD = IDR 14349           1 Euro = H 84.22     1 USD = THB 33.0911                   NA                      NA      1 Euro = H 84.22
  financial year in the case of foreign subsidiaries          1 USD = H 75.79                                    1 USD = H 75.79
e Share capital                                                            6.15                1,667.56                   10.31                 5.00                    5.00                 5.05
f   Reserves and surplus                                                  (5.16)               2,754.21                   (2.61)               (4.03)                  (1.95)               (0.24)
g Total assets                                                             1.05                4,421.80                     8.33                1.14                    2.50                 5.05
h Total liabilities                                                        1.05                4,421.80                     8.33                1.14                    2.50                 5.05
i   Investments                                                               –                4,063.79                       –                    –                       –                    –
j   Turnover                                                                  –                        –                    8.37                   –                       –                    –
k Profit before tax                                                       (0.03)               1,152.71                     0.54               (4.03)                  (2.60)               (0.24)
l   Provision for tax                                                         –                        –                      –                    –                   (0.65)                   –
m Profit after tax                                                        (0.03)               1,152.71                     0.54               (4.03)                  (1.95)               (0.24)
n Proposed dividend                                                           –                        –                      –                    –                       –                    –
o % of shareholding                                                     99.25%                 100.00%                 100.00%              100.00%                 100.00%              100.00%




                                                                                                                                                  On behalf of the Board of Directors


                                                                                                                                                                   Niraj Bajaj
                                                                                                                                                                   Chairman

                                                                                      Dinesh Thapar                                                              Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                                   Chief Financial Officer                                                    Managing Director

                                                                                      Dr. J Sridhar                                                             Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 27 April 2022                                                                 Company Secretary                                                           Vice Chairman




                                                                                                               15th Annual Report 2021-22 • Bajaj Auto Limited                              235
NOTES
www.indidesign.in
   www.indidesign.in
Bajaj Auto Limited, Akurdi, Pune - 411 035, India | www.bajajauto.com
BUSINESS
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
Section A   General information about the Company



   1        Corporate Identification Number                    L65993PN2007PLC130076
   2        Name of the Company                                Bajaj Auto Ltd
   3        Registered Address                                 Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035
   4        Website                                            www.bajajauto.com
   5        Email Address                                      brr.response@bajajauto.co.in
   6        Financial year reported                            1 April 2021 – 31 March 2022
   7        Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in           Auto
   8        Three key products/services manufactured/          Motorcycles, three-wheeler and electric
            provided by the Company                            scooters
   9        Total number of locations where business           Akurdi, Chakan and Waluj (Maharashtra)
            activity is undertaken by the Company              and Pantnagar (Uttarakhand)
   10       Markets served by the Company                      India and 79 countries across the world


Section B   Financial details of the Company



   1        Paid up capital (INR)                              289 crores
   2        Total turnover (INR)                               34,354 crores
   3        Total profit after tax (INR)                       5,019 crores
   4        Total spending on CSR as percentage of             Refer Annual Report for CSR activities
            PAT (%)
   5        List of the activities in which expenditure in 4   Refer Annual Report for CSR activities
            above has been incurred




                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   1
Business Responsibility Report




            Section C       Other details



                1           Does the Company have any Subsidiary               Yes (for details, refer Corporate Information
                            Company/ Companies?                                section in notes to Consolidated Financial
                                                                               Statements)
                2           Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies                No
                            participate in the Business Responsibility
                            Initiatives of the parent Company? If yes,
                            then indicate the number of such subsidiary
                            Company(s)
                3           Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers,      No
                            distributors etc.) that the Company does
                            business with, participate in the BR initiatives
                            of the Company? If yes, then indicate the
                            percentage of such entity/entities? [Less than
                            30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]


            Section D       BR information



                1           Details of Director(s) responsible for BR
                        (a) Details of the Director/Director responsible for
                            implementation of the BR policy/policies:
                            DIN Number                                         07464437
                            Name                                               Mr. Pradeep Shrivastava
                            Designation                                        Executive Director
                        (b) Details of the BR head:
                            DIN Number (if applicable)                         05288401
                            Name                                               Mr. Dinesh Thapar
                            Designation                                        CFO
                            Telephone number                                   (020) 66106300
                            E-mail id                                          dthapar@bajajauto.co.in
                            Principle-wise BR policy/policies                  Included in this report
                            Governance related to BR                           Included in this report




  2    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                             Business Responsibility Report




PREFACE
As mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), India’s top
1,000 listed entities based on market capitalisation on the BSE and NSE, are
required to submit a ‘Business Responsibility Report’ (BRR) along with their
Annual Report for 2021-22. The report is required to be in line with the
‘National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic
Responsibilities of Business’ (NVGs), as released by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs in July 2011.


Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘BAL’ or ‘the Company’), to whom the said requirement is
applicable, presents its 10th BRR in line with the NVGs and BRR requirements
outlined by SEBI. This report provides information on key business
responsibility initiatives undertaken by the Company and can be assessed from
our website (https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-
performance).


The business responsibility performance of the Company is assessed annually
by BAL’s Board of Directors.




                                      15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited   3
Business Responsibility Report




             PRINCIPLE 1

                     Businesses Should Conduct and Govern Themselves with Ethics,
                     Transparency and Accountability

          BAL is committed to conducting its business by adhering to the highest standards of professional
          integrity and ethical behaviour. The Company adopted an enterprise-wide ‘Code of Conduct’ (CoC), which
          is anchored on the key foundational values of ethics, transparency, and accountability. It addresses
          subjects such as bribery, corruption, and compliance to the Company’s standards of business conduct
          and ensures compliance with regulatory requirements. It is mandatory for all employees globally to
          adhere to the CoC and are familiarised with it during their induction process.

          BAL has a separate CoC for the Company’s Directors and Senior Management. It reiterates that
          ‘Directors and Senior Managers shall observe the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity
          and shall work to the best of their ability and judgment’. All Directors and Senior Management
          personnel have affirmed compliance with this CoC. This Code of Conduct is also present on the
          Company’s website (https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes) for easy reference by all
          stakeholders.

          The CoC contains a ‘Grievance Redressal Policy’ and a ‘Whistle Blower Policy’ and in order to adhere to
          BAL’s commitment, all employees have the liberty to raise concerns, if any, to the Company’s
          Management. Three stakeholder complaints pertaining to the Company’s policies under Principle 1
          were received in 2021-22. Two of them were resolved and third complaint, which was received in
          March 2022, is in progress for investigation as of 31 March 2022.

          BAL is a signatory of the World Economic Forum’s initiative, ‘Partnership Against Corruption Initiative’
          (PACI). Furthermore, the Company is also a signatory to the Model Code of Conduct developed by the
          Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).




             PRINCIPLE 2

                     Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and
                     contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle

          Innovation and technological development are critical aspects of BAL’s consistent success. The R&D
          Division continuously works towards implementing various technological developments and enables
          the Company to achieve new benchmarks in the industry. In Akurdi, the Company has a cutting-edge
          R&D Centre where the management and senior leadership collaborate to enhance the synergy between
          R&D, manufacturing, and sales.

          Of the several products rolled-out by the Company, details of some of the new products launch that has
          addressed social and environmental concerns are mentioned below

          Product		                         Social and Environmental Benefits

          Pulsar N250 and F250		
            5 Bigger tires for improved stability and control (100/80-17 Front
                                            l

              and 130/70-17 Rear) enhancing safety to the customer
          		
           l5 Bi-functional Projectors LED Head Lamps for energy efficient
              excellent road visibility, thereby increasing customer safety
          		
           l5 Rear Mono shock for better handling
          		
           l5 Mobile charger USB connectivity on Tank Flap, a location that is
              convenient for the customer
          		
           l5 Instrument console with gear indicator, clock, fuel consumption,
              distance to empty features leading to efficient use of the vehicle
          		
           l5 Environment-friendly engine that meets the BS6 exhaust and
              evaporative emission regulations. Also, it is compliant to the
              stringent Euro 5 regulation for the international markets.



  4    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                  Business Responsibility Report




		
 l5 Customer comfort and fatigue free driving due to positive gear
    shifting and light clutch incorporating Assist and Slipper (A&S)
    technology.
		
 l5 Viscous air filter element ensuring a consistent exhaust emission
    performance.

New Chetak EV		           5 The new Chetak EV system parts have been designed in-house
                                 l

                            and developed locally
		                       l5 Offers enhanced acceleration and climbing performance for the
                            customers
		                       l5 Supplied with a charging cable assembly, which has multi-level
                            safety features such as shock protection to the user, charging
                            disabled in absence of firm earthing, and voltage surge protection.
		                       l5 All the equipment come with aluminium casing. Aluminium being
                            a conductor, the thermal connection directly feeds to cells for
                            heat extraction.
		                       l5 In-built fan and smartly designed air passages for effective
                            cooling.
		                       l5 Reduced charging time leading to lower downtime for the
                            customer
RE 4S CNG / LPG MonoFuel
with Limphome feature		 l5 Launched new RE 4S CNG / LPG version with a Limphome feature
                            that enables drivers to continue using the vehicle even when the
                            gaseous fuel tank goes empty. Special feature of the vehicle is the
                            auto-changeover mechanism between gaseous and petrol
                            versions even when the vehicle is running.
		                       l5 Improved start ability with fuel injection in both modes, thereby
                            improving life of starter motor.
		                       l5 Use of high strength steels in the new RE 4S offers better
                            durability and weight benefits.
		                       l5 All versions come with tubeless tyres that have been configured
                            for better rolling resistance, which results in improved fuel
                            efficiency and lower emissions. Tubeless tyres ensure that in case
                            of a puncture, the tyre does not lose air pressure instantly and lets
                            the vehicle continue to run without any safety concern.



Sustainable Sourcing
In order to integrate a safe and eco-friendly approach throughout the supply chain, BAL has a ‘Green
Purchasing Policy’, which lists out the Company’s expectations from suppliers pertaining to water,
energy and natural resource conservation.

Local vendors are given preference whenever possible, and the Company has identified certain vendor
clusters near each of its operations, resulting in overall socio-economic development and the creation
of local job opportunities. BAL continues to maintain robust engagement with its vendors through the
‘Bajaj Auto Vendor Association’ (BAVA), which comprises of 240 members. Currently, 135 of these
members are ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 certified. Going forward, the Company plans to make these
certifications a mandatory requirement for all of its vendors.

Safety has always been an important aspect of BAL’s working culture and it has been the Company’s
constant endeavour to extend this safety culture among all its vendors. To this end, the BAVA Safety
Committees have been formed at Chakan, Waluj and Pantnagar to institutionalize safety among the
Company’s vendors. Each committee consists of safety officers and HR heads of BAVA members in that
cluster. All members in the committee are provided with regular safety trainings including specialized
Behaviour Base Safety (BBS) trainings. A total of 194 cumulative safety cross-audits have been
conducted among vendors within these clusters. Conducted by the members of BAVA Safety
Committees, these audits not only serve to assess the vendor safety practices but also function as a
platform for sharing best practices and cross-learning among the BAVA members. In April 2021, BAL
initiated a process of self-safety audit as per the standard check sheet, which is being established at
the vendor’s end. The check sheet was further modified based on the inputs received from the
Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) and BAL’s expertise and communicated to vendors.




                                                        15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     5
Business Responsibility Report




          The Company has completed 59 third-party legal and environmental audits of its vendors. Based on the
          closure of all Nonconformity (NCs) / Observations and detailed secondary research, a comprehensive
          list of applicable regulations for vendors has been created. In addition, a portal has been developed for
          all the BAVA members to upload their compliance status against these requirements. This portal is also
          used for sending alerts to ensure timely renewal actions. All the changes in the relevant laws are
          communicated to vendors in a timely manner and the same is updated on portal for their reference.

          BAL has a Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) Policy, which assists Tier I and Tier II vendors to enhance
          their operational, human and cost efficiencies. Continuous improvement on SHE (Safety, Health and
          Environment) parameters is an important element of it. In 2021-22, 175 Tier I vendor groups and 298 Tier II
          vendors were practising TPM. To advance the adoption of TPM, the Company has instituted the TPM Awards,
          which recognize best TPM performing vendors. Cumulatively, 128 BAL TPM Awards and 71 BAL TPM
          Excellence Awards have been awarded to vendors. Furthermore, 25 vendors have been recognized with the
          JIPM TPM Excellence awards and 13 vendors have received JIPM TPM Excellence Consistency Award.

          One of the focus areas in TPM is yield improvements in raw material weights through adoption of
          various process improvements, alternate processes, and efficiency improvement initiatives. These
          initiatives are expected to achieve efficiencies in overall raw material consumption over a period of
          time, thereby leading to positive environmental impacts.

          BAL also encourages its vendors to adopt best practices in energy conservation, including promotion of
          solar panel installation at major vendor locations. Currently, 39 vendors have installed roof-top solar
          projects (cumulative 35 MW capacity) at their premises, resulting in generation of green power and
          reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.

          Further, on waste management, the Company primarily engages with authorized recyclers for the
          entire process from disposal to recycling of wastes such as used oil, batteries, and paint sludge,
          amongst others.


             PRINCIPLE 3
                     Businesses should promote the wellbeing
                     of all employees

           The overall female            BAL is committed to investing in skill and competency building of its
           GTE hire has gone up          employees and ensuring their overall progress and well-being, while
                                         driving a culture of performance excellence within the Company. During

                 18%                     the financial year 2021-22, BAL hired 3,799 employees, including 275
                                         permanent employees, 311 on probation, 3,183 trainees (including 222
                                         interns) and 30 fixed-term contractual employees. The total headcount
                                         stood at 10,134 employees as of 31 March 2022. Each of the four plants
                                         have Company-recognised trade unions, and 35% of the employees are
                                         members of these unions. Currently, BAL has 17 specially-abled
                                         permanent employees. As an equal opportunity employer, BAL
                                         promotes diversity and inclusion, and encourages employment of
                                         women across the organization. The overall female Graduate Trainee
          Engineer (GTE) hire has gone up from 2% in 19-20, 8% in 20-21, 18% in 21-22. We partnered with India
          Diversity Forum as founding member which has helped us brand Bajaj Auto as a diversity focused
          organization culminating in 14k+ likes on LinkedIn. We are ranked 115 out of 334 participants in a
          diversity survey of Best Companies for Women in India Award, conducted by Working Mother and Avtar
          Best Companies for Women in India (BCWI). As on 31 March 2022, the Company has 667 women
          employees with almost 64% of women working in manufacturing plants and in engineering.

          BAL has a ‘Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace’ (POSH) policy with the aim of ensuring
          safety and security of its women employees. No complaints were filed relating to child labour, forced
          labour, involuntary labour, and sexual harassment during the financial year under review.

          Ethics and values have always been the core elements of BAL’s operations and the Company takes
          stringent actions against any violation. BAL strives to ensure that its Code of Conduct policy is
          implemented in the organization effectively and encourages its employees to report any incidents of
          violation without fear of hierarchy or retaliation. The Company has partnered with Integrity Matters ®
          for Bajaj Auto Ethics Helpline. The employees can report any ethical violations including violations of



  6    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                      Business Responsibility Report




Code-of-Conduct, policies, or any legal compliance through this helpline. While employees are
encouraged to report in a transparent and open manner, the reporting can also be done anonymously.

The Company has been evaluating advanced digital technologies such as Virtual Reality (VR) and
Augmented Reality (AR) for learning delivery. These technologies have significant potential to help us
leapfrog our competition in terms of training delivery for Diploma Trainee Engineers and Line
Engineers.

            Complaints filed during             BAL has partnered with Librarywala, an online book and
            the year relating to                digital library, for its employees belonging to the mid
                                                management cadre and above. The offering provides
            • Child labour                      access to over 1,00,000 physical books, doorstep delivery
            • Forced labour                     and pick-up, and availability of e-books in 10+ languages,
                                                among other benefits.
            • Involuntary labour
            • Sexual harassment                 BAL has launched UTSAH, which is a state-of-the-art
                                                wellness and recreational facility spread across 6.5 acres
in Akurdi, for all its employees. As part of the UTSAH launch, a new library facility was also inaugurated,
which has been built on a world-class Library Management System helping the Company to automate
all the activities with minimum human intervention.

As an employee-centric organization, BAL has been providing continuous and constant support to its
employees through various measures and initiatives. In this regard, during 2021-22, a compassionate
benevolent scheme was introduced to support the families of employees who have passed away due to
the COVID-19 pandemic. Under this intervention, the Company extended its help in the following manner:

l    BAL would pay Monthly Gross Salary (excluding retirals) up to a maximum of INR 2 lakh p.m.
     for 24 Months
l    BAL would provide education assistance for up to 2 children until they complete their
     graduation degree
l    The benefits under the hospitalization insurance policy will be extended up to a period of
     60 months for the spouse and up to 2 children till 25 years of age.




Bajaj Auto’s recreational facility for employees – 'Utsah'

After a successful first phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive for its employees aged above 45 years,
in association with local authorities, BAL launched a dedicated vaccination drive for all employees
aged over 18 years across all its plant locations. The facility also covered the family of the employees.
Furthermore, the Company extended the vaccine support to all its contract employees and their families.

The Company launched an initiative – Doctor 24x7, which is a teleconsultation app that enables all its
employees to virtually consult with well-qualified doctors, medical practitioners, and experts across
India at zero cost. More than 5,000 employees have already installed and started using the services.
The Company has also launched 1 to 1 help, an 'Employee Assistance Program' aimed at catering to the
employee's emotional and psychological needs.


                                                             15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited    7
Business Responsibility Report




             PRINCIPLE 4
                      Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive
                      towards all Stakeholders, especially those who are
                      disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised.
          Adhering to the core tenets of fairness and non-discrimination, the Company provides equal opportunity
          to all its employees and has established processes to ensure that no form of discrimination against the
          socially disadvantaged sections occurs at the workplace. Launched in 2006, the ‘Code of Conduct for
          Affirmative Action’ formalizes this commitment and ensures that equal preference is given to people
          from socially disadvantaged sections of the society ensuring that merit and other business
          considerations are equal. During 2021-22, BAL recruited 3,799 new employees of which 376 (10%)
          belong to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.

                                         BAL has mapped its internal and external stakeholders and identified
                                         the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. The
                                         Company selects its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) proposals,
                                         which undergo multiple reviews including field visits prior to a final
                                         review by the Board CSR Committee. In 2021-22, each of BAL’s CSR
          of new employees
                                         partners have undertaken detailed stakeholder engagement and
          recruited belong to            beneficiary selection exercises. Also, a total of 1,250 beneficiaries were
          scheduled castes and           contacted via 1,150 surveys/focussed group discussion and one-to-one
          scheduled tribes               stakeholder interviews through this exercise.


             PRINCIPLE 5
                     Businesses should respect and
                     promote human rights.

          As a responsible global organization committed to the universally agreed principles of human rights,
          BAL values integrity of all regulations. The Company ensures compliance with all applicable laws and
          strives to uphold the human rights of all its internal and external stakeholders. A quarterly legal
          compliance report is also submitted to the Company’s Board of Directors. In 2021-22, BAL recorded
          zero complaints against violation of human rights.


             PRINCIPLE 6

                      Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to
                      restore the environment.

          In order to integrate a safe and eco-friendly approach throughout the supply chain, BAL has a
          ‘Green Purchasing Policy’, which lists out the Company’s expectations from its suppliers pertaining to
          water, energy and natural resource conservation. The Company ensures that its suppliers adhere to
          ethical conduct related to Environment, Health & Safety and other aspects such as Human Rights and
          Child Rights.

          BAL is committed to creating and preserving a cleaner environment and has aligned its sustainability
          practices across the entire value chain, including product development, plant operations and the supply
          chain. Towards this, the Company continuously strives to reduce the impacts of its operations on the
          environment through sustainable practices and responsible use of resources. BAL follows the mission
          statement to be “Distinctly Ahead” in creating the benchmarks for resource conservation, maximizing
          use of renewable energy, and pollution control throughout its product realization cycle. Additionally, the
          environmental risks are captured in the SHE MS Documents and are periodically updated through an
          annual review.




  8    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                  Business Responsibility Report




Below are the key highlights of the plant-wise SHE
initiatives and performance:
Akurdi Plant
l    Use of Induction LED for street lighting, shop lightings and office fittings
l    Use of energy efficient pumps for Effluent Treatment Plant and water supply
l    Use of Solar Power from roof top 3.22 MWp solar power plant
l    Optimum utilization of energy in water chillers for R&D process area
l    Efficient use of Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) treated water for gardening
l    Electrical savings of over INR 3 crores in 2021-22 from use of renewable energy


Chakan Plant
l    1.3 % decrease in specific Power Consumption (Unit/Vehicle)
l    1.5 % decrease in specific PNG Consumption (Kg/Vehicle)
l    3.6 % decrease in specific Water Consumption (m3/Vehicle)
l    5.8 % decrease in specific Carbon emission (kg/Vehicle) Scope 1 and 2 emission
l    Rainwater harvesting in pond of 83,500 cubic meter.
l    Chakan Plant is ‘Water Positive Plant’ as it ensures higher annual ground water recharge than
     plant water consumption
l    Composting of food waste using Black Soldier Flies (BSF) larva
l    Installed Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant for treating Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) treated water,
     which is used in paint shop- Installation of RO Stage 2 plant. MEE plant commissioning in progress
l    Sustainable Practice in Hazardous Waste disposal – 70% of Waste Paint Sludge is sent for
     recycling instead of Incineration / Landfill
l    Clean Energy Generation of 21.2 lac unit from 2 MWp Rooftop Solar Plant and reduction
     of 1,782 tons of carbon emission
l    Planted ~200 fruit sapling in 2021-22; cumulative number of trees of varied species planted till
     date: 46,850


Pantnagar Plant
l    Despite lesser production and higher power load due to equipment addition, BAL was able to
     sustain specific power consumption in terms of units/Vehicle.
l    11.7% decrease in Specific PNG Consumption (Kg/Vehicle)
l    3.8% decrease in Specific Water Consumption (m3/Vehicle)
l    32.3 % decrease in specific carbon emission (kg/Vehicle) scope 1 and 2 emission
l    Trained 16,085 contractual workmen and 1,813 BAL employees on SHE Topic
l    Rainwater storage pond of 47,000 cubic meter




Rooftop Solar Plant at Pantnagar


                                                        15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     9
Business Responsibility Report




          l    Clean Energy Generation of 10.6 lacs unit from 1 MWp Rooftop Solar Plant resulted in reduction of
               893 tons of carbon emission
          l    Constructed new rainwater storage ponds for water conservation improving the storage capacity
               from 25,000 KL to 47,000 KL and therefore making Pantnagar a ‘Water Positive Plant’


          Waluj Plant
          l    9.2% decrease in specific Power Consumption (Unit/Vehicle)
          l    9.3% decrease in Specific LPG Consumption (Kg/Vehicle)
          l    0.04% decrease in Specific Water Consumption (m3/Vehicle)
          l    24.2 % decrease in specific carbon emission (kg/Vehicle) scope 1 and 2 emission
          l    Trained 4,517 contractual workmen and 949 BAL employees on SHE Topic
          l    Sustainable Practice in Hazardous Waste disposal – 35% of Waste Paint Sludge is sent for
               recycling instead of Incineration / Landfill




          Ground Water Recharge at Waluj

          l    Clean energy generation of 53.2 lac unit from 5-Megawatt peak (MWp) Rooftop Solar Plant and
               reduction of 4,588 tons of carbon emission
          l    Several water conservation techniques implemented such as condition-based cleaning of
               Pre-Treatment Cathodic Electro Deposition (PTCED) Water Tanks, Demineralised (DM) Water
               conservation by automation, Use of RO water directly for DM water generation, etc. This led to
               water savings of 2,180 KL/ month
          l    Waluj Plant is ‘Water Positive Plant’ as it ensures higher annual ground water recharge (8 lac KL)
               than plant water consumption (4.5 lac KL)
          l    Reduced LPG consumption at Phosphate stage by reduction in C-hanger heat load & optimising
               tank size at paint shops. This led to LPG savings of 144 Kg / day
          l    Planted approximately 500 fruit saplings in 2021-22; cumulative number of trees of varied species
               planted till date stood at 61,402


          HEALTH AND SAFETY
          Akurdi
          l    9 mock drills conducted, and SHE Trainings provided to 803 contract employees and
               138 BAL workmen


          Waluj
          l    78 mock drills conducted, and 314 Safety Trainings were provided to 7,121 BAL employees and
               contractual workmen
          l    49 Health and Safety Audits were conducted in 2021-22



 10    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                   Business Responsibility Report




l    Utilization of digital platform for worker's participation and engagement in safety management
     system via organizing online safety quiz on digital portal
l    Formation of machine health and hygiene check mechanism to ensure advanced engineering
     control sustenance on machineries.


Chakan
l    12 mock drills conducted, and 27 Safety Trainings provided to 5,945 BAL employees and
     contractual workmen
l    39 Health and Safety Audits were conducted in 2021-22


Pantnagar
l    23 mock drills conducted, and 583 trainings held for 17,898 BAL employees and
     contractual workmen
l    50 Health and Safety Audits conducted in 2021-22
l    Development of structure for Vertigo Test – Proactive capturing of fall prone cases
l    HD of vertical lifeline on Jig tripping and Hot water generator chimneys – Prevention of
     serious accident due to fall
l    Positive locking of lifting tools and tackles – Prevention of accidents during heavy
     material handling
All emissions and waste generated by the Company are within the limits defined by the Central
Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control Board (SPCB). One Show Cause Notice was
served during the CTO application by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to the Akurdi
Plant. The same was satisfactorily resolved in consultation with MPCB.


    PRINCIPLE 7

           Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory
           policy, should do so in a responsible manner.

As a responsible corporate citizen, BAL actively engages with several industry associations and
government bodies to present its views on setting up of new industry standards and regulatory
developments related to the automotive manufacturing industry, at both domestic as well as global
platforms. The Company’s ongoing dialogues through these platforms cover a wide range of areas,
which include governance and administration, economic reforms and inclusive development policies,
among others. BAL aims to bring about a positive impact in the business ecosystem of the automotive
manufacturing industry through such engagement. Listed below are some of the key industry
associations of which BAL is member:

l    Confederation of Indian Industry
l    Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers
l    Federation of Indian Export Organizations
l    The Automotive Research Association of India
l    Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture
l    National Safety Council
l    The Advertising Standards Council of India
l    Indian Merchant Chamber
l    Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry




                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     11
Business Responsibility Report




              PRINCIPLE 8
                      Businesses should support inclusive growth and
                      equitable development.

          Since the inception of the Corporate Social Responsibility Rules in 2014, the Bajaj Group has partnered
          with more than 400 NGO partners to support interventions in the areas of health, education, women
          empowerment, and environmental sustainability. Bajaj Group has spent over INR 1,600 crores till date
          towards these projects.

          In 2021-22, the Bajaj Group undertook a revisioning exercise for CSR and agreed to focus on ‘Skilling’
          as a common flagship priority across the Group companies. In addition, BAL decided to focus on
          challenges faced by ‘Fenceline’ communities who are adjacent to the manufacturing facilities and work
          towards improving the quality of life for these communities.


          Our Activities
          A. Health
          In 2021-22, BAL has contributed INR 39 crores towards different health segments. The COVID-19
          response activities have continued to remain a priority this year with INR 12 crores contributed towards
          mitigating the impact of the crisis. Highlights of some key interventions in 2021-22 under the
          Healthcare sector include:

          Response to COVID-19 second wave: BAL has been a core supporter of project #MissionVayu, an
          industry led effort by Maratha Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) to alleviate
          impact of the pandemic. As a part of this initiative, the Company has:

          l    Supported distribution of 69 BiPAPs and 400 oxygen concentrators
          l    Supported installation of 4 oxygen plants in key rural hospitals in Pune District to alleviate the load
               on the Pune urban health infrastructure
          l    Provided more than 200 oxygen supported beds in different parts of Pune district




          Mobile Health Care Unit



 12    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                    Business Responsibility Report




l    Supported distribution of 4,000 jumbo oxygen cylinders to NCT Delhi via
     Give India Foundation, Delhi
l    Provided support for setting up of 2 oxygen plants in key government hospitals of West Bengal

BAL has also supported various partner led projects to fight the COVID-19 crisis key among which include:
l    Carried out community outreach for vaccination in hard-to-reach sectors of the community with
     support of the Pune Zilla Parishad to increase the coverage of vaccination. Total 8,80,00 people
     were vaccinated through this support
l    Extended support to Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation towards distributing COVID care kits
     comprising oxygen concentrators and pulse oximeter to 258 registered Child Care Institutes (CCIs)
     in Rajasthan and Maharashtra. 12,900 children have benefitted through this support.
l    Extended support to MAHAN Trust to create community plus hospital-based interventions in
     Melghat region of Maharashtra

Additionally, the Company has continued to support other ongoing Health (non-COVID) projects such as:
l    Support to Prashanti Cancer Care Mission towards breast cancer research
l    Support to MAHAN Trust to reach out to 33,000 malnourished tribal children in the Melghat region
     of Maharashtra
l    Support to Arohi to create access to quality healthcare in rural Kumaon. Through this support, BAL
     has benefitted 3,249 people from Okhalkhanda Block (Nainital district) with primary as well as
     secondary healthcare support.
l    Support to Parivartan Trust through its mental health programme


2. Education
BAL focuses on primary education with an aim to address issues related to:

l    Low learning outcomes
l    Early childhood education
l    Dropouts and lack of access to formal schooling

Total contributions made to the Education initiative in 2021-22 was INR 14 crores. Some of the key
interventions made in 2021-22 under the education sector include:




Book distribution by Room to Read



                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     13
Business Responsibility Report




          l    Fellowship and Beyond the Classroom program with Teach to Lead: The project under the
               Fellowship program supports 100 fellows from top institutes and trains them to serve as full time
               teachers for children from low-income communities in some of the nation’s most under-resourced
               schools. ‘Beyond the Classroom’ initiative also partners with 4 of its alumni organizations to
               support BAL sponsored schools with activity-based learning.
          l    Literacy program with Room to Read: The program is ongoing in Maharashtra and Uttarakhand,
               covering 18,600 children from 120 schools. It envisions to reach additional 33,480 children in the
               coming time by engaging with teachers to provide them with training and support.
          l    The ‘Wings of Doon’ program: The ‘Wings of Doon’ program in collaboration with the Aasraa
               Trust aims to provide mentorship, guidance and educational support to children who have been
               successfully mainstreamed into regular schools. The project is ongoing in 8 government schools
               and is benefitting 2,923 children.

          In addition to the above, BAL has provided infrastructural support to 7 NGO partners to set-up schools
          for children. Highlights of such projects include:

          l    Hostels and residential quarters at Shiksha Mandal's Bajaj Institute of Technology, Wardha
          l    Support to police public school, Aurangabad for construction of classrooms


          3. Livelihood
          The Company recognizes the need to empower and uplift the urban and rural poor in the country so
          that they can generate sustainable and joyful livelihood opportunities for themselves and their families.
          Total contributions made towards the livelihood sector in 2021-22 is INR 7 crores. Some key
          interventions made in 2021-22 under the livelihood sector include:

          l    Incorporating multi-skill foundation course through LAHI: The project seeks to address the issues
               of low-quality delivery of vocational course in secondary and higher secondary schools in the
               states of Rajasthan and Uttarakhand by providing in-house technical management expertise. The
               project intends to achieve the following results:
               o     Revision in state policy to scale up vocational education in both states
               o     Benefit 2,000 children through multiskilled vocational educational programs in the trades
                     such as general engineering, energy and environment, Food processing, and Healthcare and
                     Gardening, amongst others.
          l    BAL is also supporting Bandhan Konnagar to develop hardcore poor by developing them as
               entrepreneurs in Udhamsinghnagar and supporting the research program on financial sector and
               sub-national economic reforms by the Center for Social and Economic Progress in Delhi.

          Bajaj Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program in partnership with BYST: BAL partnered with
          BYST to commence an exclusive B.A. program in the Aurangabad district. The idea behind BA-BYST
          Youth Entrepreneurship Development Programme (BYST-EYDP) is to assist the disadvantaged youth in
          developing business ideas into viable enterprises under the guidance of a mentor. The enrolled young
          entrepreneurs are nurtured till they reach a level where they are not only self-sufficient, but also able
          to make successful contributions to society through creation of wealth and employment.


          4. Environment and Natural Resource management
          BAL has adopted an environment-friendly approach across all its initiatives, manufacturing processes
          and technological innovations. The same is extended through its CSR programs as the Company
          supports multiple initiatives such as water conservation in the drought-prone districts of Aurangabad,
          Rajasthan, respectively and spring revival in the distant locations of Kumaon. Total contributions made
          in this sector include INR 5 crores

          Key intervention made in 2021-22 under the Environment and Natural Resource Management include:

          l    Bajaj Water Conservation Project (BWCP): The Bajaj Water Conservation Project covers close to
               150 villages in Aurangabad – covering a geographical area of close to 1 lakh Ha. It brings together
               6 NGOs, including Jankidevi Bajaj Gram Vikas Sanstha, working on water conservation and
               strengthening of community water stewardship. The project has completed the construction of
               119 new and 242 repair of water harvesting structures in 2021-22.




 14    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                   Business Responsibility Report




Jankidevi Bajaj Gram Vikas Sanstha (JBGVS) is a Registered Society and a Trust that functions as BAL’s
in-house NGO. JBGVS works in 450 villages and about 15 slums in the 5 core districts of Pune,
Aurangabad, Wardha in Maharashtra, Sikar in Rajasthan, and Udhamsinghnagar in Uttarakhand. The
Integrated Rural Development Project is a flagship intervention of JBGVS cutting across the themes of
water, health, education, livelihood, and micro-entrepreneurship, amongst others. The project is
designed as a 'Holistic Rural Development Programme' that seeks to bring about dignified and healthy
living among the rural communities and strengthen community self-governance in 245 villages.

Third party assessment of CSR projects was initiated basis the Board CSR Committee instructions from
2019-20. This included a mix of End Term assessments as well as Mid Term assessments of larger
projects. Agencies are selected via the established vendor selection process. In addition to project
impact assessments, detailed (voucher level) financial audits were piloted in 2021-22.


   PRINCIPLE 9

            Businesses should engage with and provide value to their
            customers and consumers in a responsible manner

BAL is a firm believer in the philosophy of ‘Customer First’, which is a fundamental driver for
business excellence. Guided by its Quality Policy, the Company uses various modes such as service
centers, web-based interfaces, dealer showrooms, social media and call centers to engage with its
customers and seek feedback for continuous improvement and enhanced customer experience. BAL
also ensures regular engagement with local service providers through structured familiarization
programs and trainings.


Motorcycles:

Underlining its truly global customer base, BAL continues to build on the brand identity of ‘The World’s
Favourite Indian’ that reflects the presence of BAL as a market leader in several countries across the
world. In line with BAL’s business vision, its Motorcycle Business has adopted TPM, The Prime mover
towards Excellence, to continuously improve its core competence in Service. The Company has rolled
out the TPM concepts across all BAL dealer workshops and all of them are actively practicing the TPM
methodology. 120 of BAL’s dealerships are now TPM certified.

                          BAL service has always kept customer satisfaction as its key priority. NPS
                          and Digitization are at its center. With the aim of improving transparency for
                          customers, customer journey is now scripted digitally and moving towards
of the emails             paperless service operations at the dealerships. The response time towards
                          customers has been phenomenal; 90% of the customers are being
being responded           responded within one hour and 98% of the emails being responded
within 10 minutes         within 10 minutes.

During 2021-22, BAL’s domestic motorcycle service team worked on back-end and front-end app, in
order to bring greater transparency and efficiency of operations. This app is based on 11 key moments,
which were obtained from detailed customer feedback based on the Net Promoter Score (NPS).

BAL’s Service Strategy is aimed at delivering an exceptional customer experience at workshops, which
is coined as Customer Success. The key elements being:
l     to step up the capability of channel and internal team
l     to enhance the quality of network along with culture transformation at the workshops
l     to instigate best in class norms for upcoming workshop under their ambitious project termed as
      NEXGEN Workshop
l     to bring about more rigor on process and system compliance and bring along digital
      transformation.
l     to achieve desirable business outcomes through improved Net Promotor score and dealer
      workshop revenue growth




                                                          15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited    15
Business Responsibility Report




          To ensure safeguarding of customers warranty terms and conditions and to give them a hassle-free
          riding experience, BAL has launched exclusive SECURE Program in India under which value added
          services are sold such Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC), Roadside Assistance (RSA), and Any Time
          Warranty (ATW), amongst others.

          To further transform the customer experience, BAL has launched a project to establish benchmark
          workshops across the industry and termed it as NEXGEN. Under this initiative, BAL has worked
          immensely on strengthening Digital Transformation and addressing the feedback obtained from the Net
          Promoter Score (NPS). In a drive of transformation, the Company is upgrading infrastructure of dealer
          workshops to make its facility more pleasing for customers and highly efficient for the workshop team.
          At the same time, digitization has brought transparency in areas of service cost and helped our
          customers with online service booking facility, menu servicing options, monitor vehicle status from the
          comfort of home, and hassle-free payment systems.

          Furthermore, the Company is also working on revamping the infrastructure of Authorized Service
          Dealers (ASD) and creating an app to assist its development and thereby ensuring uniform service
          experience for our customers PAN India.


          Commercial Vehicles:

          With the aim of moving towards sustainable practices, Bajaj has launched its ‘CNG Behtar Hai’ initiative.
          This campaign is focused on driving the customers towards a more environment-friendly fuel type, that
          is, CNG. This drive would also enable customers to increase their income owing to better operating
          economics of this fuel type. Additionally, this project is in line with the Indian government’s efforts to
          promote eco-friendly mode of commuting.

          BAL has embarked on a wide scale promotion of CNG vehicles to provide superior economy and drive
          comfort of alternate fuel (CNG) to customers. This is aided by government’s expansion of CNG pipeline
          in new areas. This promotion is currently running in more than 160 districts in India.

          BAL has further continued its ‘Swarozgar Campaign’ and the ‘Driver Bane Malik’ initiatives. The
          Swarozgar Campaign gives opportunity to the rural and unemployed youth to enter the three-wheeler
          business. Under the Driver Bane Malik initiative, assistance is provided to contract drivers to help them
          in purchasing their vehicles.

          To enhance customers’ experience at BAL’s dealerships, the Company has started to capture the
          feedbacks and measure the NPS score at main dealerships. Currently, the NPS initiative is running at
          104 dealerships and proactive actions are being taken to improve the processes. Moreover, the
          Company has dedicated call center in place to do in-bound and out-bound customer call for concern
          addressal and feedbacks. Currently, 64 cases are pending on the Consumer Forum, however, no
          complaints are logged at national consumer grievance portal.


          Electric Vehicle:

          The electric vehicle launched by BAL in 2019-20 – ‘Chetak’, is now available for booking in 20 cities
          across India. Besides being environment-friendly with zero emissions, Chetak is much quieter to run
          than the petrol-powered two-wheelers and at the same time it provides a safe and comfortable
          experience to its riders. The process of purchasing the vehicle is simple and is completed online
          through the Chetak e-commerce portal. This includes booking, uploading documents, choosing the
          financing and insurance option, and then finally making the payment. The customer needs to visit the
          store only for document verification and to receive the final delivery.




 16    Bajaj Auto Limited l 15th Annual Report 2021-22
                                                                                   Business Responsibility Report




To further improve the online experience to a prospective owner, an ‘e-showroom’ has been put in
place on the Chetak website (www.chetak.com), that largely replicates the in-showroom experience.
In addition to this, the FAQ section of the website is built in such a way that it answers almost all
technical queries of customers. From the history of the brand, to a complete virtual tour, ushered by
an AI-powered assistant, the e-showroom offers a best-in-segment online buying experience.

With the aim of continuously improving the customer satisfaction levels, customer feedback is collected
at various points in the customer’s purchase journey, right from the test ride to the delivery. With the
early set of owners providing positive feedback on the product as well as the experience, the Chetak is
primed to build on its initial success.

BAL has a robust mechanism in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
A unique identification number is generated and given to the customer. All complaints are digitally
recorded and monitored. The Turnaround time (TAT) for consumer complaints is always maintained
<5 days for all <300 complaints received. Further, the Company has a dedicated call center to respond
to all complaints. During the year under review, no customer survey was carried out by the Company.




                                                         15th Annual Report 2021-22 l Bajaj Auto Limited     17
