                Bajaj Auto Limited,
                Akurdi. Pune 411 035, India.

                Tel +91 20 27472851
                Fax +91 20 27473398
                bajajauto.com

BAJAJ
        29 June 2020

         To                                             To
         Corporate Relations Department.                Corporate Listing Department.
         BSE Limited                                    National Stock Exchange of India Ltd
         1st Floor, New Trading Ring,                   Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor
         Rotunda Building, P J Tower,                   Plot No.C-1, G Block
         Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001                   Bandra-Kurla Complex
                                                        Sandra /East), MUMBAI 400 051
         BSE Code: 532977                               NSE Code: BAJAJ-AUTO

        Subject: Regulation 34 - Submission of Notice of the 13th Annual General Meeting
                 (AGM) and Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2020

        Dear Sir/Madam,

        This is further to our letter dated 20 May 2020, wherein the Company had informed that the AGM of the
        Company is scheduled to be held on 22 July 2020.
        In terms of the requirements of Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
        Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed Notice of the ensuing 13th AGM of the Company
        and the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2020 as circulated to the shareholders through
        electronic mode today.

        The said Notice and Annual Report are                 also   placed   on   the   Company's       website
        https://www.baiaiauto.com/investors/annual-reports

        Brief details of the 13th AGM of the Company are as below:

         Date and Time of AGM                                Wednesday, 22 July 2020, 12.15 p.m. lST
         Mode                                                Video conference ('VC') / other audio-visual
                                                             means l'OAVM')
         Web-link for participation through video-
         conferencina                                        https://emeetings.kfintech.com/
         Live Webcast of AGM
         Cut-off date for a-voting                           Wednesday, 15 July 2020
         E-voting start date and time                        Sunday, 19 July 2020, 9.00 a.m. 1ST
         E-voting end date and time                          Tuesday, 21 July 2020, 5.00 p.m. 1ST
         E-voting website                                    https://evoting.ka[l{Y.com


        You are requested to take the above information on record.

        Thanking you,
        Yours faithfully,
        For Bajaj Auto Limited


        ~Sr~ar                >
        Company Secretary
        Encl: as above



                                                                                                     Pagel of l




                                                                                                    ClN l,~39'13FN2C,Q7PLC130O:lt
                                                                                                               BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                               CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

                                                                                                               Regd. Office:
                                                                                                               Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                                               Akurdi, Pune 411 035
                                                                                                               Email ID: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                                                               Website: www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                               Phone: 020-2747 2851
                                                                                                               Fax: 020-2740 7380




                                                              AGM NOTICE

Notice is hereby given that the thirteenth annual general meeting of the shareholders of Bajaj Auto Ltd. will be held on
Wednesday, 22 July 2020 at 12.15 p.m. through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’) facility to transact the following
business:

ORDINARY BUSINESS

1.   To consider and adopt the standalone and consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2020,
     together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.

2.   To confirm the interim dividend of H 120 per equity share of face value of H 10 each as final dividend for the financial year ended
     31 March 2020.

3.   To appoint a director in place of Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj (DIN 00014593), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

4.   To appoint a director in place of Shekhar Bajaj (DIN 00089358), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the
     Companies Act, 2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

SPECIAL BUSINESS

5.   Re-appointment of Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj as Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Company
     for a period of five years with effect from 1 April 2020

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

     ‘RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of sections 196, 197, 203 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013,
     (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’) read along with Schedule V to the Act (including any amendment thereto or re-enactment thereof for
     the time being in force) and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended from time
     to time and based on the recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee and subject to such sanctions as may be necessary,
     the consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to the re-appointment of Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (DIN 00018262) as the
     Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer (‘MD & CEO’) of the Company for a five year term commencing from 1 April 2020 till
     31 March 2025, not liable to retire by rotation, upon the terms and conditions set out in the statement annexed to the Notice convening
     this meeting, including the remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during his said
     tenure within the overall limits of Section 197 of the Act and in the agreement entered into between the Company and MD & CEO, which
     agreement is hereby approved, with liberty to the Board of Directors, to alter or vary the terms and conditions and remuneration including
     minimum remuneration as it may deem fit and in such manner as may be agreed to between the Board and MD & CEO.

     ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to revise the remuneration of MD & CEO from time to
     time to the extent the Board of Directors may deem appropriate, provided that such revision is within the overall limits of the managerial
     remuneration as prescribed under the Act read with Schedule V thereto, and/or any guidelines prescribed by the Government from time
     to time and the said agreement between the Company and MD & CEO be suitably amended to give effect to such modification, relaxation or
     variation without any further reference to the members of the Company in general meeting.

     ‘FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby severally authorised to
     do all such acts, deeds, matters and things and execute all such documents, instruments and writings as may be required and delegate all
     or any of its powers herein conferred to any committee of director(s) to give effect to the above resolution.’




                                                                                                       13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l   1
Notice




6.   Re-appointment of Dr. Gita Piramal as an Independent Director of the Company for a second term of five
     consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2020

      To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:

     ‘RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of section 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
     referred to as the ‘Act’), the Rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Companies Act, 2013 and the applicable provisions of the
     Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as
     the ‘Listing Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in
     force), based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company,
     Dr. Gita Piramal (DIN 01080602), who was appointed as an independent director of the Company for a term of five years up to 31 March
     2020 and is eligible for being re-appointed as an independent director and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to section 160
     of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner and considering the report of her performance evaluation for the year 2019-20, be
     and is hereby re-appointed as an independent director on the Board of the Company for a second term of five consecutive years, effective
     from 1 April 2020 up to 31 March 2025.

     ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
     thereunder, Dr. Gita Piramal be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may approve from time to
     time and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.’

7.   Appointment of Abhinav Bindra as an Independent Director of the Company for a term of five consecutive years
     with effect from 20 May 2020

     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:

     ‘RESOLVED THAT pursuant to provisions of sections 149, 152 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
     referred to as the ‘Act’), the rules made thereunder read with Schedule IV to the Act and the applicable provisions of the Securities and
     Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Listing
     Regulations’) and amendments thereto (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force),
     Abhinav Bindra (DIN 00929250) who was appointed by the Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of Nomination and
     Remuneration Committee, as an additional director under section 161(1) of the Act and who vacates his office at this annual general
     meeting and in respect of whom a notice in writing pursuant to section 160 of the Act has been received in the prescribed manner, be and
     is hereby appointed as an independent director of the Company for a consecutive period of five years, effective from 20 May 2020 up
     to 19 May 2025.

     ‘RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 149, 197 and other applicable provisions of the Act and the Rules made
     thereunder, Abhinav Bindra be paid such fees and remuneration and profit-related commission as the Board may approve from time to
     time and subject to such limits, prescribed or as may be prescribed from time to time.’




By order of the Board of Directors
For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




Dr. J Sridhar
Company Secretary
Pune: 20 May 2020




2    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                          Notice




                                                                 NOTES:
1    In view of the continuing Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) has vide its circular dated 5 May 2020 read with
     circulars dated 8 April 2020 and 13 April 2020 (collectively referred to as ‘MCA Circulars’) and SEBI circular dated 12 May 2020 permitted
     the holding of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) through VC/OAVM facility, without the physical presence of the members at a common
     venue. In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’), SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
     Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) and MCA Circulars, the AGM of the Company is being conducted through VC/OAVM, hereinafter
     called as ‘e-AGM’.

2    The deemed venue for thirteenth e-AGM shall be the registered office of the Company.

3    Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on
     his/her behalf and the proxy need not be a member of the Company. Since this e-AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through
     VC/OAVM facility, physical attendance of members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the
     members will not be available for the e-AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice.

4    Institutional/Corporate Shareholders (i.e. other than individuals/HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG format)
     of its Board or governing body Resolution/Authorization etc., authorizing its representative to attend the e-AGM on its behalf and to
     vote through remote e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to the Scrutinizer by e-mail through its registered e-mail
     address to cssdlimaye@gmail.com with a copy marked to mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com

5    Statement pursuant to section 102 of the Act forms part of this Notice. The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 20 May 2020 has
     decided that the special businesses set out under item no. 5 to 7, being considered ‘unavoidable’, be transacted at the thirteenth e-AGM of
     the Company.

6    Brief details of the directors, who are seeking appointment/re-appointment, are annexed hereto as per requirements of regulation 36(3) of
     the Listing Regulations and as per provisions of the Act.

7    The facility of joining the e-AGM through VC/OAVM will be opened 15 minutes before and will be open upto 15 minutes after the scheduled
     start time of the e-AGM, i.e. from 12.00 noon to 12.30 pm and will be available for 1,000 members on a first-come first-served basis.
     This rule would however not apply to participation of shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding, promoters, institutional investors,
     directors, key and senior managerial personnel, auditors etc.

8    Institutional Investors, who are members of the Company are encouraged to attend and vote at the thirteenth e-AGM of the Company.

9    An interim dividend at the rate of H 120 per equity share of H 10 each declared by the Board at its meeting held on 21 February 2020 has
     been paid to all the eligible members as on 4 March 2020, being the record date for the purpose of dividend.

     The directors recommend for consideration of the shareholders the above referred interim dividend as final dividend for the financial year
     ended 31 March 2020.

10   As per the Listing Regulations and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 20 April 2018, the Company shall use any electronic mode of payment
     approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment to the members. Accordingly, the interim dividend, which was declared on
     21 February 2020 was paid through electronic mode, where the bank account details of the shareholders were available. Where dividend
     was paid through electronic mode, intimation regarding such remittance has been sent separately to the shareholders. In case where the
     dividend could not be paid through electronic mode, payment has been made through physical instrument such as banker’s cheque or
     demand draft incorporating bank account details of such shareholders.

11   To ensure timely credit of dividend through electronic mode or physical instrument such as banker’s cheque or demand draft, members
     are requested to notify change of address or particulars of their bank account, if changed, to Share transfer agent-KFin Technologies
     Pvt. Ltd (‘KFin’) and to their respective depository participants.

12   To avoid fraudulent transactions, the identity/signature of the members holding shares in electronic/demat form is verified with the
     specimen signatures furnished by NSDL/CDSL and that of members holding shares in physical form is verified as per the records of the
     share transfer agent of the Company. Members are requested to keep the same updated.

13   SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number (PAN) by every person dealing in securities market. Members holding
     shares in electronic form are, therefore, requested to submit the PAN to their depository participants with whom they are maintaining
     their demat accounts. Members holding shares in physical form can submit their PAN details to the Company or KFin.

14   In terms of section 101 and 136 of the Act, read together with the Rules made thereunder, the listed companies may send the notice of
     annual general meeting and the annual report, including Financial Statements, Board Report etc. by electronic mode. Pursuant to the
     said provisions of the Act read with MCA Circulars, Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 2019-20 is being sent only through
     electronic mode to those members whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/Depositories. Members may note that the
     Notice and Annual Report 2019-20 will also be available on the Company’s website at www.bajajauto.com, website of the Stock Exchanges
     i.e. BSE Ltd. at www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. at www.nseindia.com and on the website of KFin at
     www.kfintech.com



                                                                                                     13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l       3
Notice




15   To receive shareholders’ communications through electronic means, including Annual Reports and Notices, members are requested
     to kindly register/update their e-mail address with their respective depository participant, where shares are held in electronic
     form. Where shares are held in physical form, members are advised to register their e-mail address with KFin by clicking on the
     link https://karisma.kfintech.com/emailreg. Further, the Company has availed of services offered by NSDL to update e-mail addresses of
     shareholders of the Company who have not registered their e-mail addresses. Members are requested to respond to their messages and
     register their e-mail id and support the green initiative efforts of the Company.

16   Further, those members who have not registered their e-mail addresses and mobile nos. and in consequence could not be served the
     Annual Report and Notice of e-AGM, may temporarily get themselves registered with KFin, by clicking the link: https://karisma.kfintech.
     com/emailreg for obtaining the same. Members are requested to support our commitment to environmental protection by choosing to
     receive the Company’s communication through e-mail going forward.

17   With a view to helping us serve the members better, members who hold shares in identical names and in the same order of names in
     more than one folio are requested to write to the Company to consolidate their holdings in one folio.

18   SEBI vide its notification dated 8 June 2018 as amended on 30 November 2018, has stipulated that w.e.f. 1 April 2019, the transfer of
     securities (except transmission or transposition of shares) shall not be processed, unless the securities are held in the dematerialized
     form. The Company has complied with the necessary requirements as applicable, including sending of letters to shareholders holding
     shares in physical form and requesting them to demat their physical holdings.

19   To comply with the above mandate, members who still hold share certificates in physical form are advised to dematerialise their
     shareholding to also avail of numerous benefits of dematerialisation, which include easy liquidity, ease of trading and transfer, savings in
     stamp duty and elimination of any possibility of loss of documents and bad deliveries.

20   In case of joint holders, the member whose name appears as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register of Members of the
     Company will be entitled to vote at the e-AGM.

21   The Company has been maintaining, inter alia, the following statutory registers at its registered office at Akurdi, Pune:

     i)     Register of contracts or arrangements in which directors are interested under section 189 of the Act.

     ii)    Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding under section 170 of the Act.

     In accordance with the MCA circulars, the said registers shall be made accessible for inspection through electronic mode, which shall
     remain open and be accessible to any member during the continuance of the meeting.

22   Certificate from Statutory Auditors of the Company certifying that the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019)
     of the Company is being implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, will also be
     available for inspection by the members through electronic mode.

23   For ease of conduct, members who would like to ask questions/express their views on the items of the businesses to be transacted at
     the meeting can send in their questions/comments in advance by visiting URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ and clicking on the tab
     “Post your Queries” during the period starting from 19 July 2020 (9.00 a.m.) upto 20 July 2020 (5.00 p.m.) mentioning their name, demat
     account no./Folio no., e-mail Id, mobile number etc. The queries may be raised precisely and in brief to enable the Company to answer the
     same suitably depending on the availability of time at the meeting.

24   Pursuant to section 72 of the Act, members holding shares in physical form are advised to file nomination in the prescribed Form
     SH-13 (a copy of which is available on the website of the Company) with the Company’s share transfer agent. In respect of shares held in
     electronic/demat form, the members may please contact their respective depository participant.

25   In terms of section 124(5) of the Act, dividend amount for the year ended 31 March 2013 remaining unclaimed for a period of 7 years shall
     become due for transfer in August 2020 to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the Central Government.

     Further, in terms of section 124(6) of the Act, in case of such shareholders whose dividends are unpaid for a continuous period of 7 years,
     the corresponding shares shall be transferred to the IEPF demat account.

     Members who have not claimed dividends in respect of the financial years from 2012-13 onwards are requested to approach the
     Company/KFin for claiming the same as early as possible, to avoid transfer of the relevant shares to the IEPF demat account.

26   For more details on shareholders’ matters, please refer to the chapter on General Shareholder Information, included in the Annual Report.

27   Since the meeting will be conducted through VC/OAVM facility, the Route Map is not annexed in this Notice.




4    l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                              Notice




28   In case a person has become a member of the Company after dispatch of AGM Notice, but on or before the cut-off date for e-voting, i.e.,
     Wednesday, 15 July 2020, such person may obtain the User ID and Password from KFin by e-mail request on mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com

29   Alternatively, member may send signed copy of the request letter providing the e-mail address, mobile number, self-attested PAN copy
     along with client master copy (in case of electronic folio)/copy of share certificate (in case of physical folio) via e-mail at the e-mail id
     einward.ris@kfintech.com for obtaining the Annual Report and Notice of e-AGM.

30   Instructions for e-voting and joining the e-AGM are as follows:

A.   Voting through electronic means:

     i.      In terms of the provisions of section 108 of the Act, read with rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,
             2014 as amended (hereinafter called ‘the Rules’ for the purpose of this section of the Notice) and regulation 44 of the Listing
             Regulations, the Company is providing facility of remote e-voting facility to exercise votes on the items of business given in the
             Notice through electronic voting system, to members holding shares as on 15 July 2020 (end of day), being the cut-off date fixed for
             determining voting rights of members, entitled to participate in the remote e-voting process, through the e-voting platform provided
             by KFin or to vote at the e-AGM. Person who is not a member as on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for information
             purposes only.

     ii.      The details of the process and manner for remote e-voting are given below:

		           i.     Initial password is provided in the body of the email.

		           ii.    Launch internet browser and type the URL: https://evoting.karvy.com in the address bar.

		           iii.   Enter the login credentials i.e. User ID and password mentioned in your email. Your Folio No./DP ID Client ID will be your
                    User ID. However, if you are already registered with KFin for e-voting, you can use your existing User ID and password for
                    casting your votes.

     iii.    After entering the details appropriately, click on LOGIN.

     iv.     You will reach the password change menu wherein you are required to mandatorily change your password. The new password shall
             comprise of minimum 8 characters with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special
             character (@,#,$,etc.). It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep
             your password confidential.

     v.      You need to login again with the new credentials.

     vi.     On successful login, the system will prompt you to select the EVENT i.e. Bajaj Auto Ltd.

     vii.    On the voting page, the number of shares (which represents the number of votes) held by you as on the cut-off date will appear. If
             you desire to cast all the votes assenting/dissenting to the resolution, enter all shares and click ‘FOR’/‘AGAINST’ as the case may be
             or partially in ‘FOR’ and partially in ‘AGAINST’, but the total number in ‘FOR’ and/or ‘AGAINST’ taken together should not exceed your
             total shareholding as on the cut-off date. You may also choose the option ‘ABSTAIN’ and the shares held will not be counted under
             either head.

     viii.   Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall choose the voting process separately for each folio/demat account.

     ix.     Cast your votes by selecting an appropriate option and click on ‘SUBMIT’. A confirmation box will be displayed. Click ‘OK’ to confirm,
             else ‘CANCEL’ to modify. Once you confirm, you will not be allowed to modify your vote subsequently. During the voting period, you
             can login multiple times till you have confirmed that you have voted on the resolution.

     x.      Corporate/institutional members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned image (PDF/JPG format) of
             certified true copy of relevant board resolution/authority letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorised
             signatory(ies) who is/are authorised to vote, to the Scrutinizer through e-mail at cssdlimaye@gmail.com and may also upload the
             same in the e-voting module in their login. The scanned image of the above documents should be in the naming format
              ‘BAL EVENT No.’

     xi.     Members can cast their vote online from 19 July 2020 (9.00 a.m.) till 21 July 2020 (5.00 p.m.). Voting beyond the said date shall not
             be allowed and the remote e-voting facility shall be blocked.

     xii.    In case of any queries/grievances, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and e-voting user manual
             available at the ‘download’ section of https://evoting.karvy.com or call KFin on 1800 345 4001 (toll free).




                                                                                                        13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20            l       5
Notice




B.   Voting at e-AGM:

     i.      Only those members/shareholders, who will be present in the e-AGM through video conferencing facility and have not cast their vote
             through remote e-voting & are otherwise not barred from doing so are eligible to vote through e-voting in the e-AGM.

     ii.     However, members who have voted through remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the e-AGM.

     iii.    Members attending the e-AGM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under section 103 of the Act.

     iv.     Upon declaration by the Chairman about the commencement of e-voting at e-AGM, members shall click on the thumb sign on the left
             hand bottom corner of the video screen for voting at the e-AGM, which will take them to the ‘Instapoll’ page.

     v.      Members to click on the ‘Instapoll’ icon to reach the resolution page and follow the instructions to vote on the resolutions.

C.   Instructions for members for Attending the e-AGM:

     i.      Members will be able to attend the e-AGM through VC/OAVM or view the live webcast of AGM provided by KFin at
             https://emeetings.kfintech.com by clicking on the tab “video conference” and using their remote e-voting login credentials. The link
             for e-AGM will be available in members login where the EVENT and the name of the Company can be selected. Members who do not
             have User ID and Password for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the remote
             e-voting instructions mentioned under heading A above.

     ii.     Members are encouraged to join the meeting through Laptops with Google Chrome for better experience.

     iii.    Further, members will be required to allow camera, if any, and hence use internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during
             the meeting.

     iv.     While all efforts would be made to make the VC/OAVM meeting smooth, participants connecting through mobile devices, tablets,
             laptops etc. may at times experience audio/video loss due to fluctuation in their respective networks. Use of a stable Wi-Fi or LAN
             connection can mitigate some of the technical glitches.

     v.      Members, who would like to express their views or ask questions during the e-AGM will have to register themselves as a speaker
             by visiting the URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/and clicking on the tab “Speaker Registration” during the period starting from
             19 July 2020 (9.00 a.m.) upto 20 July 2020 (5.00 p.m.). Only those members who have registered themselves as a speaker will be
             allowed to express their views/ask questions during the e-AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers
             depending on the availability of time for the e-AGM. Please note that only questions of the members holding the shares as on cut-off
             date will be considered.

     vi.     A video guide assisting the members attending e-AGM either as a speaker or participant is available for quick reference at URL
             https://emeetings.kfintech.com/

     vii.    Members who need technical assistance before or during the thirteenth e-AGM can contact KFin at emeetings@kfintech.com
             or Helpline: 1800 345 4001.

D.    General Instructions:

     i.      The Board of Directors has appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572) as the
             Scrutinizer to the e-voting process and voting at the e-AGM in a fair and transparent manner.

     ii.     The Chairman shall formally propose to the members participating through VC/OAVM facility to vote on the resolutions as set out in
             the Notice of the thirteenth e-AGM and announce the start of the casting of vote through the e-voting system of KFin.

     iii.    The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the e-AGM, first count the votes cast at the meeting, thereafter
             unblock the votes through e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses, not in the employment of the Company and make
             a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman of the Company, who shall
             countersign the same.

     iv.     The Scrutinizer shall submit his report to the Chairman or in his absence Managing Director & CEO of the Company, who shall
             declare the result of the voting. The results declared along with the scrutinizer’s report shall be placed on the Company’s website
             www.bajajauto.com and on the website of KFin https://.evoting.karvy.com and shall also be communicated to the stock exchanges.
             The resolutions shall be deemed to be passed at the AGM of the Company.




6    l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                             Notice




                                                ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE
BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTORS SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING PURSUANT TO
REGULATION 36(3) OF THE LISTING REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE ACT.

Item No. 3 of the Notice

Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj (DIN 00014593)

As regards re-appointment of Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj referred to in Item No. 3 of the Notice, the following disclosures are made for
the information of the shareholders:

The members of the Company at the annual general meeting held on 20 July 2017 approved the re-appointment of Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji
Bajaj, as non-executive Vice Chairman, being liable to retire by rotation. He is now retiring by rotation in terms of Section 152(6) of the Act and
being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

With his long association with the Company in various capacities including in the capacity of Whole-time Director and Vice Chairman, right since
1986, it is desirable that his services continue to be available to the Company on various matters as and when required.

Accordingly, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 20 May 2020, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, approved the continuation of Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj as non-executive Vice Chairman of the Company.

In consideration of the services that will be rendered by him at the request of the Company from time to time in his capacity as non-executive
Vice Chairman and taking into account his over 3 decades contribution to the Company and in order to facilitate him to render such services
as will be beneficial for the Company, the Board at its meeting held on 20 May 2020 decided that in addition to the commission and sitting fee
as may be payable to him for attending the Board meetings as non-executive director, he may continue to be extended the following facilities
during his tenure as Vice Chairman of the Company from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2023:

A – Car with driver

B – Corporate Guest House facilities

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj (born on 19 August 1952) graduated in commerce from Sydenham College, Bombay, in 1973, and did his MBA
from the International Institute of Management Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1979

Having more than 29 years of experience in Auto, Consumer Durables and Financial Services, Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj is the recipient
of the ‘Vikas Rattan Award’ from the International Friendship Society of India, for enhancing human life and outstanding achievements.

He previously occupied the position of President of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries & Agriculture, President for Industries
Association of Pune and President of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.

He is also serving as the National Council Member of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).

Directorships:

1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd. – Vice Chairman
2.   Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
3.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
4.   Bajaj Electricals Ltd.
5.   Bajaj Finance Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanship & Membership: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: 1,406,426

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Automobile Engineering & Project
Management, Infrastructure & Real Estate, CSR, Sustainability and NGO matters.

He was first appointed on the Board of erstwhile Bajaj Auto Ltd. with effect from 6 November 1995. He ceased to be Executive Vice Chairman
with effect from 1 April 2017. Since 1 April 2017, he has been made the non-executive Vice Chairman and his last drawn remuneration during
the financial year 2019-20 was H 17.50 lakh. More details about his remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for
payment of sitting fees and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

                                                                                                        13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l    7
Notice




Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Shekhar Bajaj, Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj and Madhurkumar
Ramkrishnaji Bajaj, are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the
Company.

The Board commends item no. 3 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

Item No. 4 of the Notice

Shekhar Bajaj (DIN 00089358),

As regards re-appointment of Shekhar Bajaj, referred to in Item No. 4 of the Notice, following disclosures are made for the information of the
shareholders:

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Shekhar Bajaj (born on 8 June 1948) is an honours graduate in Science from Pune University with an MBA from New York University. He started
his career as Resident Director of Bajaj Sevashram Ltd. in Udaipur in 1968.

During 1969-72, he was joint Managing Director of Bachhraj Factories Ltd., in Mumbai and took over as Chief Executive in 1974.
In 1975, he was appointed as part-time Managing Director of the Mumbai-based Bajaj International Pvt. Ltd. and later as its whole-time
Managing Director.

Bajaj Electricals Ltd. is the company most closely associated with Shekhar Bajaj. In 1980, he became its Chief Executive and four years later,
its Managing Director. Since 1994, he has been its Chairman and Managing Director. This company is a leading consumer electrical equipment
manufacturing company.

He has been the past President of ASSOCHAM, IMC, ELCOMA (Electric Lamp & Components Manufacturers Association), Associated Chamber of
Commerce and Industry of India, IFMA (Indian Fans Manufacturers Association) and other reputed associations.

Major Directorships:

1.   Bajaj Electricals Ltd.
2.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
3.   Hercules Hoists Ltd.
4.   Hind Lamps Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanship:

Hercules Hoists Ltd.

*Committee Memberships:

1.   Hercules Hoists Ltd.
2.   Bajaj Electricals Ltd.

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: 7,220

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management & Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Commercial Purchase & Supply Chain,
Human Resources & Industrial Relations, Sales, Marketing & International Business, Finance & Taxation, Corporate Governance & Ethics and
Regulatory, Government & Security Matters.

He has been associated as non-executive director on the Board of erstwhile Bajaj Auto Ltd. since 1985 and his last drawn remuneration during
the financial year 2019-20 was H 24.50 lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for
payment of sitting fees and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.




8    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                              Notice




Shekhar Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj, Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj
and Shekhar Bajaj, are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any,
in the Company.

The Board commends item no. 4 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

Statement under section 102 of the Act and regulation 36 (3) of the Listing Regulations

Item no. 5 of the Notice

At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company held on 17 March 2020, on the recommendation of the Nomination & Remuneration
Committee, Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj, was re-appointed as the Managing Director & CEO of the Company for a period of five years with
effect from 1 April 2020 on the terms of remuneration mentioned herein below, with powers to the Board to make such variation or increase
therein as may be thought fit from time to time, but within the ceiling/s laid down in the Act or any statutory amendment or relaxation thereof:

1.   Salary

     H 69,50,300/- (Rupees Sixty Nine Lakh Fifty Thousand and Three Hundred only) per month, with such annual increments/increases as may
     be decided by the Board of Directors from time to time.

2.   Commission

     Payable for each financial year, subject to such ceilings as may be set out in the Act and subject to such ceiling as may be fixed by the
     Board of Directors from time to time. The amount of commission shall be payable after the annual accounts are approved by the Board of
     Directors and adopted by the shareholders.

3.   Perquisites

     i.      Company’s contribution to provident fund and superannuation fund to the extent these either singly or put together are not taxable
             under the Income Tax Act.

     ii.     Gratuity at the rate of one month’s salary, for each year of service.

     iii.    Leave with full pay as per the rules of the Company, with encashment of unavailed leave being allowed.

     iv.     Free furnished residential accommodation with gas, electricity, water and furnishings.

     v.      Reimbursement of medical expenses incurred for self and family in India or abroad including hospitalization, nursing home and
             surgical charges and in case of medical treatment abroad, the air-fare and Boarding/lodging expenses for patient and attendant.

     vi.     Reimbursement of actual travelling expenses for proceeding on leave from Pune to any place in India and return therefrom once a
             year in respect of himself and family.

     vii.    Reimbursement of membership fees for clubs in India or abroad, including any admission/life membership fees.

     viii.   Reimbursement of salary to two housekeepers/attendants, subject to maximum of H 30,000/- per month per head.

     ix.     Personal accident insurance policy in accordance with the scheme applicable to senior employees.

     x.      Cost of insurance cover against the risk of any financial liability or loss because of any error of judgment, wrongful act or such other
             reason as may be approved by the Board of Directors from time to time.

     xi.     Reimbursement of entertainment expenses incurred in the course of business of the Company.

     xii.    Free use of Company’s two cars for Company’s work as well as for personal purposes along with drivers.

     xiii.   Telephone, tele-fax and other communication facilities at Company’s cost.

     xiv.    Subject to any statutory ceiling/s, the Managing Director may be given any other allowances, perquisites, benefits and facilities as
             the Board of Directors from time to time may decide.



                                                                                                         13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l     9
Notice




4.    Valuation of perquisites

      Perquisites/allowances shall be valued as per Income Tax Rules, wherever applicable, and in the absence of any such rules, shall be
      valued at actual cost.

5.    Minimum remuneration

      In the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during the tenure of the appointment, the MD & CEO shall be paid
      remuneration by way of salary and perquisites as set out above, as minimum remuneration, subject to restrictions, if any, set out in
      Schedule V to the Act, from time to time.

6.    Computation of ceiling

      The following shall not be included in the computation of perquisites for the purposes of the ceiling:

      a)    Contribution to provident and superannuation funds referred to in para 3 (i) above.

      b)    Gratuity payable as per para 3 (ii), to the extent of half a month’s salary for each completed year of service.

      c)    Encashment of leave as per para 3 (iii) above.

Information about the appointee:

Brief Resume

Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (born on 21 December 1966), graduated first in class, with distinction, in Mechanical Engineering from the
University of Pune in 1988, and then completed his Masters in Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with distinction, from the University of
Warwick in 1991.

He has since worked at Bajaj Auto Ltd. (Bajaj Auto) in the areas of Manufacturing and Supply Chain (1990-95), R+D and Engineering (1995-2000)
and Marketing and Sales (2000-2005) and has been its Managing Director since April 2005.

He has won a number of awards and recognitions from various prestigious bodies & institutions for his Business Leadership, Entrepreneurship
and Innovation.

Major directorships:

1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
2.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
3.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
4.    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
5.    Bajaj Electricals Ltd.
6.    KTM AG (Austrian Company)

*Committee chairmanships and memberships: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are Considered

Shareholding in the Company: He currently holds 3,42,900 equity shares (includes beneficial shareholding held in other capacity) of H 10/- each
in the Company.

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management of business strategy, product development, manufacturing & sales operations
and such other areas.

He has been associated with the Company (including erstwhile BAL) as a director since 2002 and his last drawn remuneration during the
financial year 2019-20 was H 39.86 crore. It may be noted that he has forgone his salary for the period 15 April 2020 to 15 May 2020 during the
lockdown period for Covid-19.

More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report.

Rajiv Bajaj is not disqualified from being re-appointed as a Director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

This resolution is being proposed as a special resolution in view of the relevant provisions of Schedule V to the Act requiring a special resolution
for payment of minimum remuneration in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits.




10    l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                            Notice




The Company is entering into an agreement with Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj laying down, inter alia, the terms of remuneration referred to
above and the powers and authorities delegated to him.

A copy of the said agreement would be available for inspection by the members through electronic mode upto the date of the meeting.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors or key managerial personnel or their relatives except Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj, Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj and
Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in
the Company, in the resolution set out in item no. 5 of the Notice.

The Board commends the special resolution set out in Item No. 5 for approval by shareholders.

Item no. 6 of the Notice

Based on the recommendations of Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on 24 March 2015,
appointed Dr. Gita Piramal as independent director of the Company for the first term of consecutive period of 5 years from 1 April 2015 up to
31 March 2020. Her appointment was also approved by the shareholders at eighth annual general meeting of the Company held on
23 July 2015.

Since the first term as independent director has expired on 31 March 2020, based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, considering her skills, experience & knowledge she possesses and the report of performance evaluation for the financial year
2019-20, the Board at its meeting held on 17 March 2020 recommended for the approval of the members, the re-appointment of
Dr. Gita Piramal for a second term of five consecutive years with effect from 1 April 2020 up to 31 March 2025 in terms of section 149
read with Schedule IV to the Act and Listing Regulations or any amendment thereto or modification thereof.

In accordance with section 149(10) and (11) of the Act, an independent director shall hold office for a term up to five consecutive years on
the Board of a Company, but shall be eligible for re-appointment on passing of a special resolution by the Company and disclosure of such
appointment in the Board’s report. Dr. Piramal fulfils the requirement of an independent director as laid down under section 149(6) of the Act
and regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations.

In respect of the said appointment, a notice in writing in the prescribed manner as required by section 160 of the Act, as amended and rules
made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding her candidature for the office of the director.

Dr. Piramal has given her consent for the said re-appointment and has also submitted the declaration of independence, as required pursuant
to section 149(7) of the Act, stating that she meets the criteria of independence as provided in section 149(6) and regulation 16 of the Listing
Regulations and is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors shall be available for inspection through electronic mode and the same shall
also be available at the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

The Board is of the opinion that Dr. Piramal possesses requisite skills, experience and knowledge relevant to the Company’s business and it
would be of immense benefit to the Company to continue to have her association with the Company as independent director of the Company.

According to section 152 of the Act, read with Schedule IV to the Act, in the opinion of the Board, the proposed re-appointment fulfils the
conditions specified in the Act and the rules made thereunder as also the applicable provisions of Listing Regulations and is independent of the
Management.

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Dr. Gita Piramal (born on 4 September 1954) is currently engaged in academic research at the University of Oxford. An entrepreneur and
businesswoman, author and journalist, she has a PhD in business history from Bombay University. For two decades, she contributed to several
Piramal family companies in India in various positions. She launched a publishing company and a real estate company. In 2012, she retired and
gave up board responsibilities and management roles.

An award-winning author, she has written best-seller books, case studies, articles in international and Indian publications and commissioned
and edited over 1,000 articles for The Smart Manager. She has also scripted, edited, featured and anchored television documentaries for
international and Indian channels. She conceptualised and created content for three best-selling, award-winning programs for CNBC-TV18. She
is associated with several trade and industry organisations, non-profit organisations and educational institutions. She is on the boards of many
leading companies.




                                                                                                      13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l       11
Notice




Major Directorships:

1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
2.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
3.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
4.    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanships:

1.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
2.    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.

*Committee Membership:

1.    Bajaj Auto Ltd.
2.    Bajaj Finance Ltd.
3.    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
4.    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: Nil

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Banking, Investment and treasury and
Forex Management, Corporate Governance and Ethics, Academics, Education, Authorship and such other areas.

She was first appointed on the Board of the Company on 24 March 2015 and her last drawn remuneration during the financial year
2019-20 was H 56 lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report. She will be eligible for payment of sitting fee
and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

Disclosures of her relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by her are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

She is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Dr. Gita Piramal, is directly or indirectly concerned or interested,
financially or otherwise, except to the extent of her respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item no. 6 of the
Notice.

The Board commends the special resolution set out in item no. 6 for approval by shareholders.

Item no. 7 of the Notice

Abhinav Bindra (DIN 00929250), on recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee was appointed by the Board of Directors of
the Company as an additional director in the capacity of independent director at its meeting held on 20 May 2020 with effect from 20 May 2020.
He holds office until the ensuing annual general meeting under section 161(1) of the Act.

He has submitted the Declaration of Independence, pursuant to section 149 (7) of the Act stating that he meets the criteria of independence as
provided in section 149 (6) and regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations. Abhinav Bindra is not disqualified from being appointed as a Director in
terms of section 164 of the Act.

The terms and conditions of appointment of independent directors shall be available for inspection through electronic mode and the same shall
also be available at the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

In respect of the appointment of Abhinav Bindra, a notice in writing in the prescribed manner, as required by section 160 of the Act, as amended
and as per rules made thereunder, has been received by the Company, regarding his candidature for the office of the director.

According to section 152 of the Act, read with Schedule IV to the Act, in the opinion of the Board, the proposed appointment of Abhinav Bindra
as an independent director, fulfils the conditions specified in the Act and the rules made thereunder as also the Listing Regulations and that the
proposed appointment of Abhinav Bindra is independent of the Management.




12    l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                Notice




Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Abhinav Bindra (born on 28 September 1982) is an Indian businessman and retired athlete in Sport Shooting, who is India’s first individual
Olympic Gold Medalist. With over 150 medals in his 22 year career, he is the recipient of the Padma Bhushan from the Government of India and
one of the top influencers of Sport Policy in the country.

His primary outreach to Indian Sport is through the Abhinav Bindra Foundation, a non-profit organisation that works to integrate sport science
and technology into Indian Sport and encouraging High Performance Physical Training.

He is the founder of Abhinav Bindra Foundation and Vice- Chairman of Abhinav Futuristic Pvt. Ltd.

Directorships:

1.    Hi-Tech Livestock Company Pvt. Ltd.
2.    IBS Synergies (India) Pvt. Ltd.
3.    Pizzavito India Pvt. Ltd.
4.    Pizzavito Asia Holding Pvt. Ltd.
5.    Abhinav Futuristics Pvt. Ltd.
6.    Abhinav Bindra High Performance Pvt. Ltd.
7.    EMS Techfit20 Pvt. Ltd.

*Committee Chairmanship & Membership: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: Nil

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: CSR, Sustainability & NGO matters, Academics, Education, Authorship, Sports and
administration.

He will be eligible for payment of sitting fee and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Abhinav Bindra, is directly or indirectly concerned or interested,
financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company, in the resolution set out in item no. 7 of the
Notice.

The Board commends the ordinary resolution set out in item no. 7 for approval by shareholders.

By order of the Board of Directors
For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




Dr. J Sridhar
Company Secretary
Pune: 20 May 2020




                                                                                                         13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20            l    13
CONTENTS
Board of Directors                            02

Management Team                               04

Chairman’s Letter                             06

Management Discussion and Analysis            09

Corporate Governance                          37

General Shareholder Information               59

Directors’ Report                             69
(including Annual Report on CSR activities)

Standalone Financial Statements               119

Consolidated Financial Statements             195
Board of Directors                        Duplicate Share Certificate             Company Secretary
                                          Issuance Committee
Rahul Bajaj, Chairman                                                             Dr. J Sridhar
Madhur Bajaj, Vice Chairman               Rahul Bajaj, Chairman
Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director & CEO      Rajiv Bajaj                             Auditors
Sanjiv Bajaj                              Sanjiv Bajaj
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                     S R B C & CO LLP
D J Balaji Rao                            Management                              Chartered Accountants
Nanoo Pamnani (upto 22.02.2020)
Niraj Bajaj                               Rahul Bajaj                             Secretarial Auditor
Dr. Gita Piramal                          Chairman
Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director   (Non-executive from 01.04.2020)         Shyamprasad D. Limaye
Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                Practising Company Secretary
Dr. Omkar Goswami                         Rajiv Bajaj
Anami N. Roy                              Managing Director & CEO                 Bankers
Rakesh Sharma, Executive Director
Ms. Lila Poonawalla                       Pradeep Shrivastava                     State Bank of India
Pradip Shah                               Executive Director                      Citibank N A
Abhinav Bindra (from 20.05.2020)                                                  Standard Chartered Bank
                                          Rakesh Sharma                           ICICI Bank
Audit Committee                           Executive Director                      HDFC Bank
                                                                                  HSBC Bank
Anami N. Roy, Chairman                    Abraham Joseph
D J Balaji Rao                            Chief Technology Officer                Registered under the
Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                Companies Act, 1956
Dr. Gita Piramal                          S Ravikumar
                                          Chief Business Development Officer      Registered Office
Stakeholders Relationship
Committee                                 Soumen Ray                              Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                          Chief Financial Officer                 Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman
Dr. Gita Piramal                          Ravi Kyran Ramasamy                     CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076
Dr. Omkar Goswami                         Chief Human Resources Officer
                                                                                  Works
Nomination & Remuneration                 Sarang Kanade
Committee                                 President (Motorcycle Business)         •   Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                      Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman                  R C Maheshwari
Rahul Bajaj                               President (Intra-City Business)         •   Bajaj Nagar,
Dr. Gita Piramal                                                                      Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136.
Dr. Naushad Forbes                        Samardeep Subandh
                                          Joint President (Intra-City Business)   •   Chakan Industrial Area,
Corporate Social Responsibility                                                       Chakan, Pune 410 501.
Committee                                 Kevin D’sa
                                          President (Retail Finance)              •   Plot No.2, Sector 10,
Rahul Bajaj, Chairman                                                                 IIE Pantnagar,
Rajiv Bajaj                               K S Grihapathy                              Udhamsinghnagar,
Pradeep Shrivastava                       President (Export Business)                 Uttarakhand 263 531
Dr. Naushad Forbes
                                          Eric Vas
Risk Management Committee                 President (Urbanite Business)

Anami N. Roy, Chairman                    Sumeet Narang
D J Balaji Rao                            President (Probiking Business)
Soumen Ray, CFO
                                          C P Tripathi
                                          Advisor (CSR)
Rahul Bajaj
Chairman
MANAGEMENT
TEAM




Rajiv Bajaj      Pradeep Shrivastava   Rakesh Sharma




Abraham Joseph   S Ravikumar           Soumen Ray
Ravi Kyran Ramasamy   Sarang Kanade   R C Maheshwari




Samardeep Subandh     Kevin D’sa      K S Grihapathy




Eric Vas              Sumeet Narang   C P Tripathi
CHAIRMAN’S
LETTER
Dear Shareholder,
I want to begin by paying my tribute and those of my fellow Directors and
employees to Nanoo Pamnani who suddenly passed away on 22 February
2020. Nanoo, as he was known to all, joined the Board of your Company in
2004, and served as the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management
Committees.

A ‘lifer’ and a legend in Citibank, Nanoo introduced many systems,
processes and target-driven disciplines in your Company, and created a
best-in-class structure of reporting, accountability and ownership within
Bajaj Auto’s Audit Committee. An outstanding professional, he was
respected and admired by all. We will miss him greatly.

Let me now move on to your Company’s performance in FY2020. Well
before the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, India’s GDP growth had begun
to slow down. And the country’s automobile industry had started feeling
the effects of a steady, often sharp, slump in demand.

Consider the data on real GDP growth. It was 7.2% in FY2018. It then
decreased to 6.1% in FY2019. Now, it seems to have fallen to 4.2% in
FY2020 — driven by a mere 3.1% growth in January-March 2020, with the
COVID-19 national lockdown wiping out all economic activity in the last
eight days of March 2020.
Chairman’s Letter




           As far as motorcycles were concerned, for the industry as a whole, the average monthly number of
           motorcycles billed steadily declined over the four successive quarters of FY2020.

           In a milieu of declining demand, your Company has performed well. Here are some key data:

           l   Total turnover was H 31,652 crore — a marginal decline of 0.5% from that of the previous year, which
               was the Company’s highest turnover ever.
           l   Operating earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) decreased by 1.0%
               to H 5,253 crore — which is your Company’s second highest. Operating EBITDA margin was 17.6% of
               net sales and other operating income, versus 17.5% in the previous year.
           l   Profit before tax (PBT) before exceptional items grew by 3.4% to H 6,580 crore, which was your
               Company’s highest ever. PBT after exceptional items decreased by 1.8% to H 6,580 crore, which was
               Bajaj Auto’s second highest PBT in history.
           l   Profit after tax (PAT) increased by 9.1% to H 5,100 crore. This was the highest ever PAT.

           You will, therefore, agree with me that thanks to unceasing efforts of the Management team and
           employees led by your Managing Director, Rajiv Bajaj, Bajaj Auto has performed very creditably in
           battling with the severe demand challenge that the industry faced.

           To my mind, the battle may have just begun. The national lockdown on account of COVID-19 has
           effectively wiped out 40 days, of which 32 have been in FY2021. With a partial easing of lockdown, our
           facilities at Chakan, Waluj and Pantnagar have opened, but are far from working at full pace. In any
           event, it would be almost foolhardy to believe that demand will not get affected for at least the first two,
           if not three, quarters of FY2021.

           We will have to deal with this grave situation in many innovative ways.

           We will have to use every lesson learnt in marketing and selling to recreate markets for our bikes and
           three-wheelers. We will have to delight our customers with a slew of new products that are on offer.
           We are by far India’s largest motorcycle and three-wheeler exporter; even so, we will have to drive
           exports even higher. We will have to increase operational efficiencies everywhere. We will have to
           eliminate all unnecessary costs. And we will need to do so as a united Bajaj Auto team — all striving in
           unison to get back to more business irrespective of the spectre of COVID-19.

           Here, I agree with the sentiments echoed in this year’s Management Discussion and Analysis where it is
           written “We at Bajaj Auto are confident about our products, our customers and every one of our
           employees. A large and profitable company like ours has the financial strength to deal with the
           economic impact of this pandemic. We have people who have earned us the distinction of becoming
           The World’s Favourite Indian with industry-leading metrics.”

           If there is a manufacturing company which can convert this challenge into an opportunity, it is
           Bajaj Auto. I look forward to that happening in the course of FY2021, and beyond.

           In the meanwhile, stay safe.

           With best wishes,




           Rahul Bajaj
           Chairman
           20 May 2020




8   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
     MANAGEMENT
     DISCUSSION
     AND ANALYSIS
“This is the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly… This great Nation will endure
as it has endured, will revive and will prosper. So, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we
have to fear is fear itself… which paralyzes efforts to convert retreat into advance.”

Franklin Delano Roosevelt
32nd President of the United States of America
Inaugural Address, 4 March 1933



   President Roosevelt was speaking when the            It also needs stating that much of the world
   Great Depression had wreaked havoc on the            should come out of the slump by the last
   world economy. Between 1929 and 1932,                quarter of CY2020, and that the global economy
   real GDP of the USA crashed by 25%.                  is projected to return to growth by CY2021.
   Private investment plummeted by 84%.
   Exports fell by 46%. And unemployment                We at Bajaj Auto are confident about our
   ballooned by 607%.                                   products, our customers and every one of our
                                                        employees. A large and profitable company like
   It is important to put things in perspective.        ours has the financial strength to deal with the
                                                        economic impact of this pandemic. We have
   Compared to the Great Depression which               people who have earned us the distinction of
   ravaged the USA, the United Kingdom, France,         becoming The World’s Favourite Indian with
   Germany, Latin America, Japan, India and most        industry-leading metrics.
   colonial possessions of the time for at least four
   long years — when global GDP fell by 15%             Today, we are again open for business. Not fully,
   between 1929 and 1932 — the worst-case               but in good measure. Soon enough, the effects of
   economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic             the lockdown will be things of the past. And then,
   pales to insignificance. Though terrible in the      unified in our resolve and commitment, Bajaj
   number of worldwide infections and deaths, the       Auto will roar back at full throttle!
   global economy is projected to contract by 3% in
   2020 [International Monetary Fund, World             We don’t fear fear. We know how to convert a
   Economic Outlook, April 2020].                       challenge into opportunities. And we will.


Even before the onset of COVID-19 in India, two things had become obvious. The first was that
throughout FY2020, the country’s economic growth was slowing down. And the second was that the
automotive sector was facing declining demand across the board.

Let us start with India’s economic growth. The growth of real GDP was 5.9% in January-March 2019;
then fell to 5.6% in April-June 2019; then yet again to 5.1% in July-September 2019; followed by 4.7%
growth in October-December 2019. At the time of drafting this Management Discussion and Analysis,
we do not have the official data for the fourth quarter of FY2020 (i.e. January-March 2020). However,
given that the last eight days of March 2020 were under a full national lockdown, it would be hardly
likely to see a bump up in the growth rate in Q4 FY2020.

Before the COVID-19 lockdown, both the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Central Statistical Office
(CSO) of the Government of India had revised the GDP growth rate downwards. The RBI changed its full
year GDP growth estimate from 7.2% to 5.0% in February 2020. In a similar vein, the second advance
estimates of national income for FY2020 released by the CSO on 28 February 2020 pegged GDP growth
for FY2020 at 5.0% compared to 6.1% in FY2019; and growth in gross value added (GVA) at 4.9% in
FY2020 versus 6.0% in FY2019.




                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20   l   9
Management Discussion and Analysis




           The CSO officially released the data on GDP growth for FY2020 and Q4 on 29 May 2020. The numbers
           were worse than projected above. GDP growth for FY2020 was 4.2%, an 11-year low. And for Q4 FY2020
           it was 3.1%, thanks to the COVID-19 lockdown effect.

           India was not alone in this growth slowdown. The engine sputtered in China as well. Table 1 gives the
           data on real GDP and gross value added (GVA) growth over the last five financial years.


           Table 1: Growth in real GDP and GVA, India
                                                                    FY2016     FY2017   FY2018     FY2019          FY2020


           Real GDP growth                                              8.2%     7.1%     7.2%        6.1%           4.2%
           Real GVA growth                                              8.1%     7.1%     6.9%        6.0%           3.9%
           Source: Government of India, Central Statistical Office (CSO).


           Regarding the automotive sector, as an example consider the industry’s domestic sale of motorcycles.
           After two consecutive years of impressive growth in FY2018 and FY2019 — when the number of
           motorcycles sold within India increased by 13.7% followed by 7.8% — FY2020 saw a huge de-growth of
           17.5%. In terms of the number of units billed by the industry, April-June 2019 was 25% of the number
           of motorcycles billed for FY2019, which suggested that the industry as a whole seemed to be on track.
           Then the slowdown began in earnest. Total billing for Q2 FY2020 was at 21% of the previous year’s
           total. For Q3 FY2020, this share had reduced to 20%. And thanks to the lockdown that effectively
           eliminated the last eight days of March 2020, the share dropped even further in Q4 FY2020 to a mere
           17% of the previous year’s total.

           Consequently, domestic sale of motorcycles in FY2020 fell to 11.2 million units, or a decline of 17.5%
           over the previous year. It was worst ever percentage fall since FY2011.

           Industry-wide domestic sales of three-wheelers fell as well. After enjoying a growth of over
           10% in FY2019, when sales increased to some 701,000 units, it fell by 9.2% to a little over 636,500
           units in FY2020.

           How did Bajaj Auto perform in this extremely difficult period? For this, it is best to start with the
           Company’s financial performance for FY2020, compared to the previous year.




10   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                              Management Discussion and Analysis

Charts A and B illustrate Bajaj Auto’s financial performance.
Chart C shows the overall industry’s sale of two-wheelers.



                                                   Chart A: EBITDA and EBITDA %
                                         6000                                                                        22.2                                     24




                                                                                                                                                                     EBITDA (% of total operating income)
                                                                                                     21.2                     21.7
                                         5500               21.7        20.4      20.2                       20.1                     20.2                    22
                                                                                          19.6
                                         5000                                                                                                                 20
                                                                                                                                               17.5    17.6
                                         4500                                                                                                                 18
                 EBITDA (H In Crore)




                                         4000                                                                                                                 16
                                         3500                                                                                                                 14
                                                            13.6
                                         3000                                                                                                                 12
                                         2500                                                                                                                 10
                                         2000                                                                                                                 8
                                         1500                                                                                                                 6
                                         1000                                                                                                                 4
                                          500                                                                                                                 2
                                               0                                                                                                              0
                                                    FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020

                                                           EBITDA              EBITDA%



                                               Chart B: Total Operating Income, Operating Profit and PAT
                                       32000                                                                                                          5,100   5500




                                                                                                                                                                                   Operating Profit and PAT (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                              5000
 Total Operating Income (H In Crore)




                                       28000
                                                                                                                                             4,675            4500
                                       24000                                                                                                                  4000
                                                                                                                                     4,068
                                                                       3,340                                        3,930   3,828
                                       20000                                                        3,243                                                     3500
                                                                                3,004    3,044
                                                                                                                                                              3000
                                       16000                                                                2,814
                                                                                                                                                              2500
                                       12000                                                                                                                  2000
                                                               1,704                                                                                          1500
                                       8000
                                                                                                                                                              1000
                                       4000
                                                    656                                                                                                       500
                                           0                                                                                                                  0
                                                   FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020
                                                     Total Operating Income                      Operating Profit           PAT



                                               Chart C: Industry's Sale of Two-Wheelers, Domestic + Exports (million units)
                                          27

                                          24                                                                                                 8.00
                                                                                                                                      7.91
                                          21                                                                                                          6.59
                                                                                                                            6.81
                                          18                                                                 5.47   6.03
                                                                                                    4.43                                     16.47
                                          15                                    3.44     3.81
                                                                                                                                     15.10
                                                                                                                                                      14.35
                                                                       2.83                                 13.00   12.91   13.12
                                          12                                    11.94    11.95      12.46
                                                               2.07    10.50
                                           9
                                                    1.64       8.44
                                           6        6.81

                                           3

                                           0
                                                   FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020

                                                     Motorcycles                Other Two-Wheelers



                                                                                                                                        13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                                                         l   11
BAJAJ AUTO’S
FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE
FOR FY2020
                 Total turnover stood at H 31,652 crore — a marginal decline of 0.5% from that
                 of the previous year, which was the Company’s highest turnover ever.


                                Net sales declined by 1.5% to H 29,112 crore, which is the second
                                highest in Bajaj Auto’s history.



                                             Total operating income (net sales plus other operating income)
                                             declined by 1.4% to H 29,919 crore — which also happens
                                             to be Bajaj Auto’s second highest ever.



                                                  Operating earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
                                                  amortisation (EBITDA) declined by 1.0% to H 5,253 crore —
                                                  yet again, the Company’s second highest.




                                                    The operating EBITDA margin is 17.6% of net sales and other
                                                    operating income, versus 17.5% in the previous year.




                                                    Operating profit declined by 0.7% to H 5,004 crore.
                                                    The operating profit margin is 16.7% of net sales
                                                    and other operating income — 10 basis points
                                                    above the previous year.


                                                Profit before tax (PBT) before exceptional items grew by 3.4%
                                                to H 6,580 crore, which was the Company’s highest ever.



                                        Profit before tax (PBT) after exceptional items declined by 1.8% to
                                        H 6,580 crore, which was the Company’s second highest
                                        PBT in history.


                           Profit after tax (PAT) increased by 9.1% to H 5,100 crore.
                           This was the highest ever PAT.


            Surplus cash and cash equivalent as on 31 March 2020 reduced by
            12.5% to H 14,322 crore, on account of payment of interim
            dividend in FY2020.

Therefore, despite a 17.5% drop in the total number of motorcycles sold by the industry in India and
a 9.2% decline in the number of three-wheelers sold, Bajaj Auto did well for itself. It earned the
highest ever PBT (before exceptional items); and the benefits of a lower corporate tax rate helped in
earning its highest ever PAT.
Management Discussion and Analysis




           Motorcycles
           After an outstanding growth in FY2019, Indian industry’s domestic sale and exports of motorcycles
           declined by 12.8% in FY2020 to 14.35 million units. It was not just the relative lack of demand.
           The motorcycle industry was subjected to several regulations which significantly increased the
           cost of ownership. Notable among these were: (i) compulsory five-year third party insurance which
           was introduced in October 2018, (ii) more rigorous braking norms from April 2019, and (iii) the
           implementation of the more stringent emission norms under BS-VI from April 2020.

           Chart D below depicts how these regulations impacted industry-wide growth of motorcycle
           demand in India.



                             Chart D: Growth of Domestic Motorcycle Industry (in volume)
                       20          14.2
                                              5 Year Insurance
                       10
                                                                Tougher Braking Norms
                        0
                                                                                                                    Transition to BS-VI
                                                       (2.0)
                      (10)                                                 (8.7)
                                                                                                          (14.6)
                      (20)                                                                                               (18.6)
                                                                                             (21.6)                                       COVID-19
                      (30)

                      (40)                                                                                                                         (41.9)

                      (50)
                               Apr - Oct 18     Nov - Mar 19 Apr - June 19 Jul - Sep 19                Oct - Dec 19    Jan - Feb 20        Mar 20
                                          % Growth

           How did Bajaj Auto perform in this milieu? Simply put, in an extremely tough year, it held its own, and
           earned decent profits while doing so.

           Table 2 gives the data.

           Table 2: Sale of Motorcycles, Domestic and Exports
                                          Motorcycles Domestic                                                               Motorcycles Exports
           Year              Industry                             BAL’s                        BAL's      Industry                        BAL’s                       BAL's
           ended                sales       Industry              sales             BAL's     market         sales      Industry          sales          BAL's       market
           31 March             (nos.)       growth               (nos.)           growth      share         (nos.)      growth           (nos.)        growth        share


           2016         10,700,466            (0.4%)           1,898,957             7.2%      17.7%    2,208,932         (1.9%)      1,459,295             (4.1%)   66.1%
           2017         11,094,543             3.7%            2,001,391             5.4%      18.0%    2,025,529         (8.3%)      1,218,541        (16.5%)       60.2%
           2018         12,613,241            13.7%            1,974,577            (1.3%)     15.7%    2,483,297         22.6%       1,394,757             14.5%    56.2%
           2019         13,599,678             7.8%            2,541,320            28.7%      18.7%    2,865,851         15.4%       1,695,553             21.6%    59.2%
           2020         11,214,640           (17.5%)           2,078,136           (18.2%)     18.5%    3,136,519          9.4%       1,869,220             10.2%    59.6%


           Let us start with domestic sales of motorcycles for FY2020:
           l   Domestic sales of all motorcycles across the industry slumped by 17.5% to 11.2 million units.
           l   Bajaj Auto’s sales also decreased by 18.2% to a bit over 2 million units.
           l   The Company’s share in the domestic motorcycles market decreased by 20 basis points to 18.5%,
               which was still higher than its share in FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018.

           Regarding export performance for FY2020:
           l  Total exports of motorcycles from India increased by 9.4% to over 3.13 million units.
           l  Bajaj Auto’s exports rose by 10.2% to 1.87 million units.
           l  The Company’s share in total exports of motorcycles grew by 40 basis points to 59.6%.



14   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                 Management Discussion and Analysis




It is necessary to delve deeper into these numbers, especially to explain what is happening to the
different motorcycle segments within the domestic market.

We begin with the so-called ‘mileage’ or ‘M’ segment, where Bajaj Auto is represented by the CT,
the Platina and the Pulsar125.
l   In FY2019, while domestic billings of this segment for the industry as a whole grew by 6.1%,
    Bajaj Auto’s billings increased by 28.7%. Consequently, our market share in the M segment
    increased by 2.6 percentage points to 14.5%.
l   Plagued by a lack of demand, accentuated by a series of regulatory costs that were imposed
    upon the market that we touched upon earlier, billings in this segment plummeted in FY2020.
    For the industry, from an average of 8.66 lakh units per month in FY2019, billings dropped
    by 16.1% in FY2020.
l   Bajaj Auto, too, was affected by a drop in sales — its billings reduced by 17.0%; and our market
    share in the M segment fell marginally by 20 basis points to 14.3%.
l   That we, more or less, held on to our market share was driven by excellent sales performance of
    two new models — the Platina H and the Pulsar125. These models upgraded the product profile of
    this segment to create excitement in the ‘mileage’ market and attract a new set of customers.

After two consecutive years of rapid growth, the mileage or M segment of India’s motorcycle market
witnessed a sharp downturn in FY2020. Bajaj Auto also faced this downturn. However, it managed to
mitigate with the introduction of new models.

That brings us to what we call the ‘sports’ or ‘S’ segment, where we have our Pulsars ranging from
150cc to 220cc and the Avenger.
l  In FY2019, industry’s sales in the ‘sports’ segment grew by 18% over the previous year and
   accounted for 16% of the industry’s total domestic sales. Bajaj Auto’s sales increased by over
   33% to an average of almost 80,300 units per month, and enjoyed a segment share of over 44%.
l  The overall lack of demand for motorcycles in FY2020 also showed up in the sports segment.
   Average monthly sales for the industry as a whole dropped from 182,264 units in FY2019
   to 139,436 units in FY2020 — a fall of 23.5% in the course of a year.
l  Even in the milieu of declining sales, Bajaj Auto did well and actually increased its
   market share in the segment from 44.1% in FY2019 to 44.7% in FY2020.

Despite an overall drop in sales, Bajaj Auto remained the clear leader in the sports segment and, in
fact, increased its market share by 60 basis points to 44.7% in FY2020.

In the higher ‘super-sports’ segment, we offer the entire range of KTMs, the Pulsar RS200
and the Dominar.
l   In FY2019, total sales in this segment accounted for an average 83,930 bikes per month, with it
    growing by 4.6% over the previous year. Bajaj Auto’s models accounted for 7.4% of the segment.
l   As it occurred across the industry and over each market segment, FY2020 saw an 18.5% decline in
    sales to an average of 68,400 bikes per month.
l   Here, Bajaj Auto bucked the trend. In a year when segment sales for the industry declined by 18.5%,
    we sold an average of over 6,930 super-sports bikes per month — or a growth of 10.9% over the
    previous year. Consequently, our market share in this segment increased by 2.7 percentage points,
    from 7.4% in FY2019 to 10.1% in FY2020.

Despite the blip in FY2020, we believe that in the longer run the ‘sports’ and ‘super-sports’ segments
will grow. Urban India’s under-40 generation that has the wallet size will want to own bikes that have
power, speed, manoeuvrability and best-in-class looks. With our upper-end Pulsars, KTMs, Dominars,
Husqvarnas and the soon to be launched Triumphs, we expect to continue having a solid presence in
these segments.




                                                                            13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l    15
Management Discussion and Analysis




           KTM: Continues to Roar
           As we wrote in last year’s Management Discussion and Analysis, “Who would have thought even five
           years ago that premium sports bikes costing over H 1.5 lakh a piece would not just enjoy a growing
           market in India, but also succeed in selling over 200,000 units worldwide. It has.” Things have got even
           better in FY2020.

           KTM comfortably crossed the 60,000 unit mark by growing at 26% in FY2020 — the only major brand to
           record high double digit growth in a year that saw most OEM’s and brand’s decline.

           l           FY2020 was a year of new product launches for KTM. The brand strengthened its presence in the
                       125cc premium sports bikes with the launch of RC125. The 125cc pair of bikes — Duke and RC —
                       helped drive brand’s growth in smaller towns as well and bring in young customers buying
                       their first bike.
           l           KTM revamped its existing models with the launch of the 2020 range. The popular Duke200 was
                       revamped in a completely new form, as was the Duke390 with a Quickshifter+.
           l           It joined the big league of superbikes in India with the launch of the KTM 790 Duke, which will cater
                       to top-end biking enthusiasts and influencers.
           l           At its first participation in the India Bike Week at Goa in December 2019, KTM displayed its entire
                       international range and invited KTM international athletes who swept the audience off their feet
                       with their biking stunts and conversations. During what is possibly the largest biking festival in Asia,
                       virtually painted orange by KTM, the brand unveiled two much awaited product launches:
                       Adventure 390 and Husqvarna.
           l           We have started producing all the new models which, we believe, will help the brand to sustain its
                       growth position in the coming years.

           Chart E plots the growth of KTM sales in India.



                                       Chart E: KTM Sales in India (number of bikes sold)
                               70000                                                                          64,058

                               60000
                                                                                                     50,705
                               50000                                                        46,321
               Annual Volume




                               40000                                              34,970
                                                                        30,362
                               30000
                                                               22,627
                               20000
                                                     11,050
                               10000      7,399

                                  0
                                          FY2013      FY2014   FY2015    FY2016    FY2017   FY2018   FY2019   FY2020
                                           Sales in India



           Scooters: The Legendary Chetak Rides Again
           It was time to resurrect a historical legend into a modern avatar. For decades, Bajaj Auto was
           synonymous with its Chetak. We decided to re-introduce the Chetak as a best-in-class electric scooter
           with an iconic design — creating a thing of beauty that transcends time.

           Simple lines and smooth surfaces are seamlessly woven together softly to create a classic style. In the
           new Chetak, this timelessness has been updated with exquisite detailing, the use of premium materials
           and finishes, and a choice of four eye-catching colours in the Premium variant and a choice of two
           vibrant colours in the Urbane variant to achieve exceptional visual delight and touch and feel quality.



16   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Management Discussion and Analysis




The new Chetak features a hypnotic horseshoe shaped LED headlight with daytime running lamps,
feather touch activated electronic switches and sequential scrolling rear LED blinkers. A large digital
console intuitively displays vehicle information with crisp clarity. The Chetak’s fine craftsmanship is
visible in the smallest of details — from handlebar grips, levers and mirrors, to the soft opening of the
glove box and the damped seat closure mechanism.

At the heart of the new Chetak is a IP67 rated high-tech Lithium Ion battery with NCA cells. The battery
is easily charged using a standard household five ampere electrical outlet. The on-Board Intelligent
Battery Management System (IBMS) controls charge and discharge seamlessly.

With its design housing the latest technology, the rider is assured of an unforgettable ride on the
Chetak. The 3 KWH battery provides for power-peak of 4.08 KW and 3.8 KW continuous for an effortless
ride. It offers two drive modes —Eco and Sport — and a reverse assist mode to ensure that all the
demands of a rider are satisfied. Regenerative braking via an intelligent braking system helps
maximise its range to above 95 kilometers.

Moreover, the Chetak offers a fully-connected riding experience by virtue of being embedded with
mobility solutions like data communication, security and user authentication that enable customers
to have a seamless ownership and riding experience. The Chetak mobile app gives the rider
a comprehensive overview of all aspects of his/her vehicle and its ride history.

It is not only its looks, feel, features and driving experience. It is also the process of its creation.
The new Chetak is made at a state-of-the-art dust-free, temperature controlled facility at Chakan,
Pune to exacting standards using the best materials and cutting edge robotic technology.



Three-Wheelers and Qute
Bajaj Auto is the world’s largest manufacturer and seller of three-wheelers. Our performance in this
segment is given in Table 3.

Table 3: Three-Wheeler Sale, Industry and Bajaj Auto (in numbers)

                                       Total sales                     Domestic sales                       Exports

Particulars                 FY2020        FY2019      FY2018     FY2020    FY2019       FY2018    FY2020     FY2019    FY2018



Passenger sales
Industry sales             1,020,865    1,133,908     894,234    525,015   572,392      517,423   495,850    561,516   376,811
Bajaj Auto sales            629,326      745,254      612,590    334,714   368,208      346,846   294,612    377,046   265,744
Bajaj Auto market share       61.6%        65.7%        68.5%     63.8%      64.3%       67.0%     59.4%      67.1%     70.5%
Goods carriers
Industry sales              117,873      134,792      122,466    111,554   128,619      118,275     6,319      6,173     4,191
Bajaj Auto sales             32,191        32,349      23,262     30,103    30,618       22,791     2,088      1,731      471
Bajaj Auto market share       27.3%        24.0%        19.0%     27.0%      23.8%       19.3%     33.0%      28.0%     11.2%
Total three-wheelers
Industry sales             1,138,738    1,268,700    1,016,700   636,569   701,011      635,698   502,169    567,689   381,002
Bajaj Auto sales            661,517      777,603      635,852    364,817   398,826      369,637   296,700    378,777   266,215
Bajaj Auto market share       58.1%        61.3%        62.5%     57.3%      56.9%       58.1%     59.1%      66.7%     69.9%




                                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l   17
Management Discussion and Analysis




               l   In FY2020, our overall three-wheeler sales declined by 14.9% from the all-time high in
                   FY2019 to 661,517 units.
               l   Our domestic sale of three-wheelers reduced by 8.5% to 364,817 units. Despite this, we
                   remained by far the market leader, accounting for 57.3% of all three-wheeler sales, and
                   63.8% of passenger vehicle sales.
               l   In the goods carriers segment, we now account for 27.0% of the domestic market — up from
                   23.8% a year earlier.
               l   Our export of three-wheelers decreased by 21.6% to 296,700 units. This occurred entirely on
                   account of severe permit restrictions, and the consequent lack of sales, in Egypt. Again, we
                   were dominant exporter among Indian sellers, and accounted for a market share of
                   59.1% in FY2020.

           l   We continue to dominate the petrol and alternate fuel market — with sales of 240,467 vehicles in
               FY2020 and a domestic market share of 88%.
           l   In the overall diesel category, Bajaj Auto achieved leadership with a market share of 40%.
               In the small diesel category, our market share now stands at 89% — up by 9 percentage points.
               And in the larger diesel segment, our market share has grown from 26% to 29%.
           l   Last year, our quadricycle, Qute, was successfully launched in four states: Kerala, Gujarat, Odisha
               and Rajasthan. In FY2020, we sold 942 units of Qute within India. A partnership with Uber helped in
               selling 270 Qutes in the Bangalore market, with over 150 such vehicles now running
               on the Uber platform.


           International Business
           It is our international business that gives greater meaning to being The World’s Favourite Indian.

           While FY2018 was the year of recovery for Bajaj Auto, FY2019 saw us gaining significant momentum
           and further strengthening our position as the leading Indian exporter of motorcycles and
           three-wheelers.

               In FY2020
               l   We exported over 2.17 million vehicles — 4.4% over the previous year, and our highest ever
                   exports. This occurred despite the lockdown that started on 24 March 2020 and permit
                   problems for three-wheelers in Egypt.
               l   In a difficult global market scenario, we succeeded in growing our motorcycle exports
                   by 10.2%, and sold almost 1.87. million vehicles to other countries of the world.
               l   We consolidated our presence in 79 countries. Of these, we are either ranked
                   No.1 or No. 2 in 22.


           Table 4 gives the export data.
           Table 4: Exports, in Units and Revenue for, Bajaj Auto

           Particulars                                                        FY2020         FY2019         Growth



           Units
           Motorcycles                                                      1,869,220      1,695,553            10.2%
           Commercial Vehicles                                                301,885        383,177        (21.2%)
           Total numbers                                                   2,171,105      2,078,730             4.4%
           Exports in H (crore)                                               12,216         11,845             3.1%
           Exports in USD (million)                                             1,642          1,642                 –




18   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                Management Discussion and Analysis




Our motorcycle exports in FY2020 grew on the back of:
l  Growth in Africa, especially in Nigeria, Ethiopia and Uganda where we continued to grow by over
   20%. We improved upon our dominant position in Africa and launched a second brand, CT,
   in Kenya and Guinea Conakry to fulfil the need for greater mileage for some customers.
l  Growth in the Middle East, where we capitalised on recovery in Egypt and increasing penetration
   in newer markets like Iraq.
l  A strong presence in the ASEAN region, aided by market share improvement in the Philippines.
l  Stable volumes in Latin America, where a drop in our volumes in Argentina owing to economic
   turmoil was compensated by growth in Mexico and Central America.
It needs to be stated, however, that our export business in South Asia faced head winds — with
regulatory issues in Bangladesh, and with Sri Lanka having another year of declining appetite.
Commercial vehicle exports suffered a drop owing to regulatory issues in Egypt. Even so, there were
areas of strong improvement in fundamentals of the business.
l  New markets — where we entered in the last five years — continue to grow handsomely. Philippines,
   Iraq and Cambodia are among our top 10 markets now, each growing at over 20%.
l  New products launched in the last two years — Maxima, Cargo and Qute — more than doubled their
   volumes in FY2020.

Chart F shows the distribution of Bajaj Auto’s exports across broad regions. Chart G plots our
export performance over the years, both in value and as a share of the Company’s total net sales.


                                      Chart F: Share of Bajaj Auto's Exports (in numbers) by Major Regions

                                100
                                                               14%                                                     14%

                                 80


                                                               47%                                                    53%
                                 60


                                 40
                                                               11%
                                                                                                                       11%
                                 20
                                                                28%
                                                                                                                       22%

                                  0
                                                              FY2019                                                  FY2020
                                                   South Asia & Middle East           ASEAN           Africa             Latin America


As Chart G shows, we have not only increased the value of our exports in FY2020, but have also
increased its share as a percentage of net sales.


                                          Chart G: Bajaj Auto’s Export Performance
                                                                                                                                           50
                                13000                                                         46.2
                                12000                                                                44.1                                  45
                                11000
                                                                                 41.6
                                                                                                                      39.3     40.1 42.0
                                                                                                               36.9                        40
                                                                                                                                                As a % of Net Sales




                                10000
                                                                     34.2 34.4
         Exports (H In Crore)




                                                                                                                                           35
                                 9000       31.3
                                 8000                28.2 28.0                                                                             30
                                 7000                                                                                                      25
                                 6000
                                                                                                                                           20
                                 5000
                                 4000                                                                                                      15

                                 3000                                                                                                      10
                                 2000
                                                                                                                                           5
                                 1000
                                      0                                                                                                    0
                                            FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020
                                               Exports                 As a % of Net Sales



                                                                                                                            13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                l   19
R&D
FY2020 was an extremely busy one for Bajaj Auto’s R&D, as it launched
strategically important products to strengthen the Company’s market position
in addition to carrying out the transition from BS-IV to the new BS-VI norms across
its entire product portfolio.



Product Interventions
R&D introduced 18 new products/upgrades in FY2020.
The notable launches of these 18 are highlighted below.
CHETAK
ELECTRIC
SCOOTER
R&D created the next generation Chetak in an electric
avatar — bringing the historic brand back to life.
This premium electric scooter is designed to look
exquisite and ride like a dream. It is packed with
technological features ranging from connected
interface, LED head lamps, scrolling LED indicators,
twin LED tail lamp clusters, reverse parking gear,
soft touch contactless switches, highly absorptive
single sided suspension both at front and the rear
and, above all, a silent ride, all aimed to redefine the
two-wheeler riding experience. The scooter attains a
maximum speed of 60 kph and has a range of 95 km
on a single charge.
         PLATINA H
         The Platina had already become very popular in the market with its
         Comfortec technology, which delivered the greatest comfort to its
         customers compared to all other motorcycles in the commuting
         segment. To further enhance this comfort, the Platina H gear version
         was launched. It uses the H or the ‘Highway Gear’ — along with a smart
         gear shift guide displayed on a new LCD speedometer — to maximise
         fuel efficiency. The Platina H is India’s most fuel-efficient bike. It comes
         with a new high comfort quilted seat; and provides the option
         of a front disc brake with a combined braking system.




22   l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
CT 110
The CT 110 transforms the CT
portfolio with a much tougher look
and feel. It also introduces the
DTS-i technology to the CT
platform. Large diameter crash
guards, tank pads and all-terrain
semi-knobby tyres give it a
tough look. The 110 cc engine
powers the bike strongly in
sync with the promised
character of toughness.
The CT 110 uplifts the CT
brand.




                                     PULSAR 125
                                     To get a discernible increase in our market share in the
                                     sports segment, it was important to expand the range of
                                     displacement offered on the Pulsar platform. The 150cc
                                     was the lowest displacement in the Pulsar range. We
                                     decided to create a new 125cc engine preserving the core
                                     essence of the Pulsar to widen the appeal. Thus, the
                                     Pulsar 125 was manufactured — with the strongest
                                     performance in the 125cc segment. The counter-balancer
                                     and a five-speed gear box gives the bike a stress-free
                                     smooth drive, even when the engine is pushed beyond the
                                     red line. The Pulsar 125 deliberately provides a full bike
                                     size and feel despite being a 125cc. In fact, the vehicle
                                     performance is so strong that one could easily mistake it
                                     for a more powerful bike.




                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l   23
         KTM
         ADVENTURE
         390
         The off-road specialist image of KTM was incomplete in India
         without an adventure offering. The Adventure 390 is the best entry
         level adventure bike in India and abroad. It is steeped with
         technology and offers high end features — like an electronic quick
         shifter, motorcycle stability control, electronic throttle, adjustable
         visor and a massive rotomolded fuel tank. The suspension is
         adjustable for preload and rebound damping. The bike looks a
         full-size Adventure bike. It has been called the most complete
         Adventure bike; and it comes with a comprehensive power part
         offering to further customise the bike.




24   l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
RC 125
The KTM range was expanded to provide a high
performance 125cc water cooled engine to its
RC platform. It gave the KTM a lower cost entry
point into the Racetrack inspired KTM variant.




                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20   l   25
         HUSQVARNA
         SVARTPILEN AND
         VITPILEN 390/250
         KTM and Bajaj Auto have launched the pioneering Scandinavian motorcycle brand Husqvarna.
         The Svartpilen and Vitpilen mean the black arrow and the white arrow, in memory of the
         legendary Husqvarna brands of the past. The two bikes offer a cool and differentiated style which
         is unlike anything else in the world markets. Each bike is detailed in an immaculate manner - one
         as a scrambler and the other as a sports bike. These bikes are bound to become icons just like
         the KTM Duke and RC. The addition of Husqvarna brand to the KTM stores is expected to
         significantly expand the volume of the super-sport segment.




26   l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
DOMINAR 250
While being a great bike, the Dominar 400 was priced higher due to its big
displacement engine and top end features. Moreover, the high performance
engine was considered too powerful for less experienced riders. To broaden
the appeal, a new 250 DTS-i engine was created to power the Dominar 250.
This, along with tweaking of several other features, has allowed the Dominar
250 to be great performing bike that is competitively priced.




                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l   27
Management Discussion and Analysis




           BS-VI Transition
           The thrust on new products and upgrades was done without affecting the massive transition plan of the
           entire product portfolio to meet India’s stringent BS-VI emission norms. The entire range of
           motorcycles and commercial vehicles had to be redesigned to employ sophisticated electronic controls
           including fuel injection to meet these emission norms. The production plants and dealer network also
           needed to be upgraded to achieve this transition.

           It is worth noting that R&D upgraded 23 motorcycle variants and 12 commercial vehicle variants
           in a seamless manner to BS-VI during the last two quarters of FY2020. All products went into
           production according to tightly controlled schedules. The market response on the BS-VI range has
           been very positive.

           We currently have the widest portfolio and the highest number of variants that have been upgraded to
           BS-VI compared to any other automobile companies in India. This is a clear demonstration of Bajaj Auto
           R&D’s strong technical capability.


           New Facilities
           R&D has invested in creating a state-of-the-art electric vehicle (EV) test facility in FY2020. This new
           laboratory will be pivotal in our thrust into the EV space. Every component and aggregate in the EV
           system can be tested for performance and durability at the new facility.


           Operations, Productivity and Quality
           TPM
           Bajaj Auto’s ‘back end’ consists of its manufacturing, engineering, development and materials functions.
           These functions are guided by the principles and philosophy of TPM. It is our endeavour to make TPM
           as The Prime Mover towards excellence in our work culture. ‘The TPM way’ has been successfully
           extended externally to include Bajaj Auto’s vendors, dealers and distributors with an aim to create
           a work culture of achieving across-the-board excellence.


           Bajaj Auto’s TPM at Manufacturing Plants
           Bajaj Auto is ‘first-in-the-industry’ in having all its manufacturing plants certified for ‘Special Award for
           TPM Achievement’ by Japan Institute for Plant Maintenance (JIPM). We continued our TPM journey and
           have adopted ‘TPM Next’ — Deepening, Widening and Evolving.

           l   Through ‘Deepening’, we focus on increasing the strength in standard TPM pillar activity and
               creation of new pillars based on business needs.

           l   With ‘Widening’, we have expanded the scope of TPM pillar activity across the supply chain including
               vendors, dealers and distributors.

           l   With ‘Evolving’, we are attempting to adapt the TPM way to be future ready to face the challenges
               ahead. Under Evolving TPM, we have taken up various management themes for focused
               improvement.




28   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                   Management Discussion and Analysis




Our Chakan plant underwent a detailed two-stage assessment for the ‘Advanced Special Award’ by
JIPM auditors. Appreciative of our TPM methodology and the results achieved at the plant, the auditors
conferred upon it the ‘Advanced Special Award for TPM Achievement’ in FY2020.

Further, to sustain all improvements and excel, we are working to develop and practice something
called the Bajaj Production System (BPS) aimed at ‘Better Flow with Better Quality’.


Vendor TPM Activities
BAL believes that a company alone cannot be sustainable, unless it takes along its supply chain.
We support our vendors to become globally competitive in terms of safety, quality, production, delivery,
cost and human development. The TPM concept is pervasive at vendors’ end with the help of BAVA
(Bajaj Auto Vendors Association). At present:

l   174 Tier 1 vendor groups from our supply chain are practicing TPM.

l   Of these, 128 have been conferred with the ‘BAL TPM Award’ and 71 have secured ‘BAL TPM
    Excellence Award’.

l   Going further, 23 of the 71 ‘BAL TPM Excellence’ awardees have successfully challenged next level
    of award, i.e. the ‘JIPM award for Excellence in TPM’.

l   In addition, BAL’s TPM practicing Tier I vendors have extended TPM practices down the supply chain
    to their vendors. Thus, the TPM way is now being practiced by 295 Tier II vendors. Of these, 167 have
    been certified as TPM awardees by their respective Tier I vendors.

Under the Safety, Health and Environment pillar of BAL’s TPM and in alignment with ‘Green
Purchase Policy’, 75% of our vendors have been certified for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 as on
31 March 2020. Many vendors have installed solar rooftop system recently, with a total capacity
of approximately 30MW.


TPM in After-Sales Service
An industry first initiative of implementing TPM at dealership service workshops was piloted in
52 dealers in FY2018. Encouraged with the results achieved, this TPM was cumulatively expanded to
240 dealerships by the end of FY2019. This initiative was further expanded in FY2020, cumulatively
taking the total of TPM practicing dealerships to 480. We now have, for all three business units, at least
five dealerships in each hub that are practicing TPM. These TPM practicing dealerships cover more
than 50% of our geographical presence across India. We have also started evaluating our TPM
practicing dealerships based on structured scorecard; and intend to reward and recognise
dealerships with high score by giving them the ‘Bajaj TPM Award’.

Another industry first initiative is of the ‘Kaizen Movement’ at our dealerships which started in middle
of FY2019. This has now matured and more than 90% dealerships are doing kaizens and uploading
these on a kaizen sharing platform called www.bajajkaizen.com In the last 18 months, this platform has
11,550 kaizens — of which over 70% are contributed by our dealers’ employees. The best Kaizens
among these are evaluated and rewarded by the Company.




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    29
Management Discussion and Analysis




           TPM at Overseas Distributor Plants
           During FY2019, we piloted manufacturing TPM at our overseas distributor plants. This was mainly
           initiated to help these entities develop basic understanding of TPM methodologies and practices.
           Encouraged by the results achieved in the span of a year, we decided in FY2020 to initiate
           Manufacturing TPM for all our major distributor partners across globe.

           A detailed TPM facilitator course was designed for this. More than 70 participants from 11 countries
           and 13 distributor plants were trained to guide TPM implementation. Of the 13 plants, 11 have
           completed first seven to eight steps of the TPM methodology after the kick off; and achieved good
           results in their Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) like improvement in utilisation of their production
           capacities, increase in manpower productivity, right first time quality and reduction in conversion costs
           ranging between 8% to 18%.


           Women Employment
           Half a decade earlier, we had very few women in our plants and in the engineering workforce. Around
           FY2014, we decided that it was time for a change. Our women employee strength has grown almost
           four times since then — from 148 in FY2014 to 595 in FY2020. Of them, 535 women are working in
           manufacturing plants and in engineering. We have women workforce dominated assembly lines where
           they make high-end motorcycles like Dominar and KTMs as well as the Chetak electric scooter. Our
           female employees are now doing jobs which were earlier thought of as ‘men only’ activities like
           dynamic testing of bikes on dynamometers. We have chosen a path and begun. More needs to be done.


           Capacity and Productivity Improvements
           Table 5 gives plant-wise capacities across Bajaj Auto’s facilities.

           Table 5: Plant-wise Capacities (in units per annum)

           Plant                              As on 31 March 2020 Product Range



           Waluj                Motorcycles               2,400,000 Boxer, CT, Platina, Discover, Pulsar
                                Commercial Vehicles        930,000 Passenger Carrier, Good Carrier, Quadricycle
                                                         3,330,000
           Chakan               Motorcycles               1,200,000 Pulsar, Avenger, KTM, Dominar, Husqvarna, Chetak
           Pantnagar            Motorcycles               1,800,000 CT, Platina and Pulsar
                                                         6,330,000


           As on 31 March 2020, BAL’s employee strength stood at 10,718.




30   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Management Discussion and Analysis




           Financials
           Table 6 gives the summarised standalone profit and loss statement of Bajaj Auto.

           Table 6: Summarised Standalone Profit and Loss Statement.
                                                                                                           (H In Crore)

           Particulars                                                                        FY2020         FY2019


           Operations
           Sales                                                                              29,112          29,567
           Other operating income                                                                807              791
           Total operating income                                                             29,919         30,358


           Cost of materials consumed, net of expenditures capitalised                        20,978          21,768
                                                                                               70.1%           71.7%
           Stores and tools                                                                      130              141
                                                                                                0.4%            0.5%
           Employee cost                                                                        1,386           1,253
                                                                                                4.6%            4.1%
           Factory, administrative and other expenses                                            866              680
                                                                                                2.9%            2.2%
           Sales and after sales expenses                                                       1,306           1,208
                                                                                                4.4%            4.0%
           Total expenditure                                                                  24,666         25,050
           Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)               5,253           5,308
           EBITDA %                                                                            17.6%          17.5%
           Interest                                                                                 3                4
           Depreciation and amortisation                                                         246              266
           Operating profit                                                                    5,004           5,038
                                                                                               16.7%          16.6%
           CSR spends and donations                                                              154              112
           Operating profit less CSR spends and donations                                      4,850           4,926
           Non-operating income                                                                 1,733           1,438
           Less : Non-operating expense                                                             3                3
           Non-operating income, net                                                            1,730           1,435
           Profit before tax (PBT) and exceptional item                                        6,580           6,361
           Exceptional item (Income)/Expense                                                        –           (342)
           Profit before tax (PBT)                                                             6,580           6,703
           Tax expense                                                                          1,480           2,028
           Profit after tax (PAT)                                                              5,100           4,675


           Surplus cash and cash equivalents as on 31 March                                   14,322         16,368


           Profit Margin before exceptional items                                              20.8%          20.0%
           Profit Margin                                                                       20.8%          21.1%
           Net Profit Margin                                                                   16.1%          14.7%

           l   Bajaj Auto’s return on operating capital employed in FY2020 stood at 336%, versus 198% in FY2019.
           l   Surplus cash and cash equivalents as at 31 March 2020 was H 14,322 crore compared to
               H 16,368 crore as at 31 March 2019 — a decrease of 12.5% over the previous date. This was on
               account of the payment of interim dividend in FY2020.
           l   Our surplus funds are invested in (i) fixed income securities rated P1+ and equivalent for short-term
               investments, (ii) AA+ and above rated securities for long-term investments, and (iii) fixed deposits
               with banks and finance companies.




32   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                   Management Discussion and Analysis




As required for listed companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Table 7 gives
the key ratios.

Table 7: BAL’s Key Financial Ratios, Standalone

Particulars                           FY2020         FY2019 Remarks



Debtors Turnover Ratio                  16.88          11.55 Driven by significant reduction in domestic
                                                             debtors due to reduction of channel
                                                             inventory.
Inventory Turnover Ratio                19.75          22.67
Current Ratio                            1.55            1.45
Operating Profit Margin                 16.7%          16.6%
Net Profit Margin                       16.1%          14.7%
Return on Net Worth                     25.6%          21.5%



Subsidiaries
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV)
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV) is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of
Bajaj Auto Ltd. Over the years, through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of
€198.1 million (H 1,219 crore), and holds approximately 48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM), the
fastest growing motorcycle brand in the world.

Calendar year 2019 has been another record year for KTM, with highest sales in units and highest
turnover in the history of the company.
l   It sold 213,949 motorcycles as against 211,931 motorcycles in the previous year.
l   It achieved a turnover of €1.51 billion compared to €1.45 billion in the previous year.
l   Profit after tax was at €84.6 million (H 670 crore) versus €89.8 million (H 729 crore).
l   The proportionate profit to Bajaj Auto Ltd. was €40.6 million (H 322 crore) as against €43.1 million
    (H 350 crore) in the previous year, which shows up in the consolidated results.

In its annual general meeting for the calendar year 2019, KTM AG declared a dividend of €2.50 per
share. On this account, BAIH BV has received €13.0 million (H 109 crore) as its share of dividend for
calendar year 2019.

During the year, Bajaj Auto manufactured 110,870 units of KTM and Husqvarna at its Chakan plant.
Of these, 64,058 units were sold through the Pro-Biking network, and 46,166 were exported.


Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
During the year, Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand
with an issued and subscribed capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H 11 crore). We have also obtained
the necessary approvals from local authorities to set up an International Business Centre (IBC) and
a R&D Centre under this subsidiary.

The IBC will be leveraged to identify suitable business partners, gather key market insights and manage
as well as oversee Bajaj Auto’s business operations across the ASEAN region. The R&D centre will be
the first Bajaj R&D design office outside India.

Thailand is an advanced motorcycle market and it defines as well as leads the trends in South East
Asian markets. Many international designers have already joined the Bajaj R&D team for working from
this new facility. The new design centre marks the beginning of Bajaj R&D expanding its design centres
to trend-defining markets around the globe.




                                                                              13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l    33
Management Discussion and Analysis




           Consolidation of accounts and
           segment reporting
           Table 8: Segment Revenue and Segment Results
                                                                                                                (H In Crore)

           Segment Revenue                                                                        FY2020          FY2019



           Automotive                                                                              29,968          30,437
           Investment and others                                                                    1,475            1,265
           Total                                                                                   31,443          31,702


           Segment Results
           Profit/(Loss) from each segment before tax
           Automotive                                                                               5,223            5,697
           Investment and others                                                                    1,472            1,263
           Total                                                                                    6,695           6,960
           Less : Interest                                                                               3                4
           Profit before tax                                                                        6,692           6,956
           Profit after tax                                                                         5,212           4,928



           Outlook
           On balance, FY2020 was a satisfactory year for Bajaj Auto. To be sure, it was not as spectacular as
           FY2019. But given the huge headwinds faced by all sections of the automobile industry in India
           throughout FY2020, Bajaj Auto did well.

           FY2021, which was supposed to be the year of BS-VI, has been rocked by COVID-19 and what it might
           do to demand.

           Yes, there is a very distinct possibility that domestic demand will remain constrained, especially at
           the 100cc-110cc entry level segment for the first two quarters of FY2021. So too, perhaps, in the
           sports segment for the first and second quarter. Equally, there are a reasonably large number of
           relatively well-off people who will want to savour the joy of riding a great, zippy bike. And it is likely that
           the super-sports segment may see a growth in demand if it is offered great products like those that we
           propose to put forth in FY2021.

           In any event, the story of motorcycle demand in the COVID-19 and immediate post-Covid world will be
           about marketing — of how the story of desire is communicated to the segmented markets and how
           manufacturers can buttress this story with exciting products, prices and financial offers. It will also be
           a story of leveraging every opportunity of cost optimisation and productivity gains — often from hitherto
           unrecognised operational areas.

           We cannot say how Bajaj Auto will fare in this unknown world. But we do know that Bajaj Auto has
           serious financial muscle to fashion its paths to growth. Enabled by our financial power, if the growth
           path becomes a reality, it is quite possible that demand effects of COVID-19 may be less overwhelming
           that what these appear today.




34   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Management Discussion and Analysis




           We also know that our Company has best-in-class talent — right from the shop floor level to the senior
           managers. We know that the commitment of this talent to Bajaj Auto is second to none. We also commit
           to backing our people all the way through this crisis — employees, dealers and suppliers — and thus
           giving them the renewed confidence to realise that we will win this challenge together.

           Not much more can be said at this stage. Except to pray that all our employees, dealers and suppliers
           stay safe; and that they keep their powder dry for the great battle ahead.


           Cautionary Statement
           Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s objectives, projections,
           estimates and expectations may be ‘forward looking’ within the meaning of applicable laws and
           regulations. Actual results may differ from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could make
           a difference to the Company’s operations include global economy, political stability, stock performance on
           stock markets, changes in Government regulations, tax regimes, economic developments and other
           incidental factors. Except as required by law, the Company does not undertake to update any forward-
           looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Investors are advised to exercise due care
           and caution while interpreting these statements.




36   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
    CORPORATE
    GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance is about promoting fairness, transparency, accountability, commitment to
values, ethical business conduct and considering all stakeholders’ interest while conducting business.
In accordance with the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and amendments thereto (hereinafter referred to as ‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), given
below are the corporate governance policies and practices of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’ or ‘BAL’)
for the year 2019-20.

This Report, therefore, states compliance as per requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter
referred to as ‘the Act’) and SEBI Listing Regulations, as applicable to the Company. As will be seen, the
Company’s corporate governance practices and disclosures have gone well beyond complying with the
statutory and regulatory requirements stipulated in the applicable laws, including SEBI Listing
Regulations.

Philosophy
For us, Corporate Governance is a reflection of principles entrenched in our values and policies and
also embedded in our day-to-day business practices, leading to value-driven growth. The commitment
of the Bajaj group to the highest standards of good corporate governance practices predates SEBI and
the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Ethical dealings, transparency, fairness, disclosure and
accountability are the main thrust of the working of the Bajaj group. Bajaj Auto Ltd. maintains the same
tradition and commitment.

Board of Directors
In keeping with the commitment of the Management to the principle of integrity and transparency in
business operations for good corporate governance, the Company’s policy is to have an appropriate
blend of executive and independent directors to maintain the independence of the Board and to
separate the Board functions of governance and management.


Composition
As per regulation 17(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, where the Chairman is executive or
a promoter, at least one half of the Board of the Company should consist of independent directors.
As Table 1 shows, this provision is met at BAL.

In view of the sad demise of Nanoo Pamnani, an independent director of the Company,
on 22 February 2020, the Board in his place has appointed one more independent director at its
meeting held on 20 May 2020.

As on 31 March 2020, the Board of the Company consisted of fifteen directors, of whom four were
executive (including one Managing Director), seven were non-executive independent (including two
women independent directors) and four were non-executive and non-independent, The Board has no
institutional nominee director. As on 31 March 2020, the Company had an Executive Chairman.

More particulars about the directors are mentioned in the Board’s Report.




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l   37
Corporate Governance




          Number of meetings of the Board
          During the year 2019-20, the Board met eight times, viz. 17 May 2019, 26 July 2019,
          18 September 2019, 19 September 2019, 23 October 2019, 30 January 2020, 21 February 2020 and
          17 March 2020. The gap between any two meetings has been less than one hundred and twenty days.


          Attendance record of directors
          Table 1: Composition of the Board and attendance record of directors for 2019-20
                                                                                                               No. of
                                                                                                               Board         Whether
                                                                          Relationship with                   Meetings       attended
          Name of director             Category                           other directors                     attended       last AGM



          Rahul Bajaj*                 Chairman, executive                Father of Rajiv Bajaj and
                                                                          Sanjiv Bajaj                            7/8            Yes
          Madhur Bajaj                 Vice Chairman, non-executive Brother of Shekhar Bajaj
                                                                    and Niraj Bajaj                               5/8            Yes
          Rajiv Bajaj                  Managing Director and CEO,         Son of Rahul Bajaj, brother
                                       executive                          of Sanjiv Bajaj                         7/8            Yes
          Sanjiv Bajaj                 Non-executive                      Son of Rahul Bajaj, brother
                                                                          of Rajiv Bajaj                          8/8            Yes
          Shekhar Bajaj                Non-executive                      Brother of Madhur Bajaj and
                                                                          Niraj Bajaj                             7/8            Yes
          D J Balaji Rao               Non-executive, independent                         –                       7/8            Yes
          Nanoo Pamnani**              Non-executive, independent                         –                       6/7            Yes
          Niraj Bajaj                  Non-executive                      Brother of Madhur Bajaj and
                                                                          Shekhar Bajaj                           7/8            Yes
          Dr. Gita Piramal             Non-executive, independent                         –                       8/8            Yes
          Pradeep Shrivastava          Executive Director                                 –                       8/8            Yes
          Dr. Naushad Forbes           Non-executive, independent                         –                       6/8            Yes
          Dr. Omkar Goswami            Non-executive, independent                         –                       7/8            Yes
          Anami N. Roy                 Non-executive, independent                         –                       7/8            Yes
          Rakesh Sharma                Executive Director                                 –                       7/8            Yes
          Ms. Lila                     Non-executive, independent
          Poonawalla***                                                                   –                       7/8            Yes
          Pradip Shah***               Non-executive, independent                         –                       7/8            Yes
          * Became Non-executive Chairman w.e.f. 1 April 2020.
          **Ceased to be an independent director consequent upon his sad demise on 22 February 2020. In his place Abhinav Bindra was
          appointed as an independent director w.e.f. 20 May 2020.
          ***Appointed as an independent director w.e.f. 1 April 2019.



          Opinion of the Board
          The Board hereby confirms that, in its opinion, the independent directors on the Board fulfil
          the conditions specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations and the Act and are independent of
          the Management.




38   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Corporate Governance




          Non-executive directors’ compensation
          The shareholders of the Company vide special resolution passed at the annual general meeting of the
          Company held on 27 July 2016 have, by way of an enabling provision, approved the payment of
          commission up to a sum not exceeding one percent of the net profits of the Company, calculated in
          accordance with the provisions of section 197 and 198 of the Companies Act, 2013, to the non-executive
          directors, in the manner as may be decided by the Board of Directors from time to time during the five
          year term up to 31 March 2021.

          In terms of the said approvals, non-executive directors of the Company are being paid, in addition to the
          sitting fee of H 100,000 per meeting for every meeting of the Board and its Committees, commission at
          the rate of H 250,000 per meeting of the Board and its Committees attended by them as member,
          subject to the overall ceiling of one percent of the net profits.

          In consideration of the extra services rendered by Nanoo Pamnani, at the request of the Management
          during the year, Nanoo Pamnani became entitled for payment of H 30 Lakh (same as in the previous
          year) as additional commission for the year 2019-20, pursuant to the aforesaid approvals.

          The Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) for
          the benefit of the permanent employees and/or Directors of the Company and/or its holding (if any, in
          future) and subsidiary Company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any employee who is
          a promoter or belongs to the promoter group.


          Information supplied to the Board
          In advance of each meeting, the Board is presented with relevant information on various matters
          related to the working of the Company, especially those that require deliberation at the highest level.
          Presentations are also made to the Board by different functional heads on important matters from time
          to time. Directors have separate and independent access to the officers of the Company. In addition to
          items required to be placed before the Board for its noting and/or approval, information is provided on
          various significant items.

          In terms of quality and importance, the information supplied by the Management to the Board of the
          Company is far ahead of the list mandated under regulation 17(7) read with Part A of Schedule II to the
          SEBI Listing Regulations. As stated elsewhere, the independent directors of the Company at their
          meeting held on 20 May 2020 expressed satisfaction on the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of
          information between the Company Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board to
          effectively and reasonably perform their duties.

          With a view to leveraging technology and moving towards paperless systems for the preservation of
          environment, the Company has adopted a web-based application for transmitting Board/Committee
          papers. The Directors of the Company receive the agenda in electronic form through this secure
          application. The application meets the high standards of security and integrity required for storage and
          transmission of Board/Committee agenda in electronic form.


          Orderly succession to Board and Senior Management
          The Board of the Company satisfied itself that plans are in place for orderly succession for
          appointments to the Board and to Senior Management.


          Directorships and memberships of Board Committees
          Details of directorships and memberships in the various committees as held by the directors of
          the Company are given in Table 2.




40   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                          Corporate Governance




Table 2: Number of directorships/committee positions of directors
as on 31 March 2020
                                                                                                Committee positions in listed
                                                                                                 and unlisted public limited
                                                     Directorships                                       companies
                                                                                                      As
                                  In equity           In unlisted             In private           Member
                                    listed           public limited             limited         (including as             As
Name of director                 companies            companies              companies            Chairman)            Chairman



Rahul Bajaj                            2                     2                     7                    –                    –
Madhur Bajaj                           5                     –                     4                    –                    –
Rajiv Bajaj                            5                     –                     3                    –                    –
Sanjiv Bajaj                           5                     5                     9                    7                    –
Shekhar Bajaj                          3                     4                     5                    2                    1
D J Balaji Rao                         5                     –                     –                    4                    2
Niraj Bajaj                            4                     4                    10                    1                    1
Dr. Gita Piramal                       4                     –                     2                    7                    2
Pradeep Shrivastava                    1                     –                     –                    –                    –
Dr. Naushad Forbes                     5                     –                     8                    5                    1
Dr. Omkar Goswami                      4                     –                     1                    4                    1
Anami N. Roy                           6                     2                     3                    5                    2
Rakesh Sharma                          1                     –                     –                    –                    –
Ms. Lila Poonawalla                    2                     8                     –                    6                    3
Pradip Shah                            7                     2                     6                    7                    2
Notes: None of the directors holds office as a director, including as alternate director, in more than twenty companies at the same
time. None of them has directorships in more than ten public companies. For reckoning the limit of public companies, directorships
of private companies that are either holding or subsidiary company of a public company are included and directorships in dormant
companies are excluded.
As per declarations received, none of the directors serves as an independent director in more than seven equity listed companies.
Further, the Managing Director in the Company does not serve as an independent director in more than three equity listed companies
and in fact not even in a single entity.
None of the directors was a member in more than ten committees, nor a chairman in more than five committees across all
companies in which he/she was a director.
For the purpose of considering the limit of the committees in which a director can serve, all public limited companies, whether listed
or not, have been included and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under
section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 have been excluded. Only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are
considered for the purpose of reckoning committee positions.




                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20             l   41
Corporate Governance




          Directorships held by directors in equity listed companies
          The names of equity listed entities where the directors of the Company held directorships including the
          category of directorships are given in Table 3.

          Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
          directorships as on 31 March 2020

          Name of director       Name of listed entities                       Category



          Rahul Bajaj            a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                            Chairman, executive
                                 b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                         Chairman, non-executive


          Madhur Bajaj           a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                            Vice Chairman, non-executive
                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                         Non-executive
                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                         Non-executive
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.           Non-executive
                                 e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                     Non-executive


          Rajiv Bajaj            a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                            Managing Director and CEO,
                                                                               executive
                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                         Non-executive
                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                         Non-executive
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.           Non-executive
                                 e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                     Non-executive


          Sanjiv Bajaj           a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                            Non-executive
                                 b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                         Vice Chairman, non-executive
                                 c) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                         Chairman and Managing Director,
                                                                               executive
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.           Managing Director and CEO,
                                                                               executive
                                 e) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                  Chairman, non-executive


          Shekhar Bajaj          a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                            Non-executive
                                 b) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                     Chairman and Managing Director,
                                                                               executive
                                 c) Hercules Hoists Ltd.                       Chairman, non-executive


          D J Balaji Rao         a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                            Non-executive, independent
                                 b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent
                                 c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                         Non-executive, independent
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.           Non-executive, independent
                                 e) CMI FPE Ltd.                               Non-executive, independent


          Niraj Bajaj            a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                            Non-executive
                                 b) Mukand Ltd.                                Chairman and Managing Director,
                                                                               executive
                                 c) Mukand Engineers Ltd.                      Non-executive
                                 d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.           Chairman, non-executive




42   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                           Corporate Governance




Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
directorships as on 31 March 2020 (Contd.)

Name of director      Name of listed entities                   Category



Dr. Gita Piramal      a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent
                      c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent
                      d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.       Non-executive, independent


Pradeep Shrivastava   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Whole-time Director, executive


Dr. Naushad Forbes    a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent
                      c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.       Non-executive, independent
                      d) Zodiac Clothing Company Ltd.           Non-executive, independent
                      e) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent


Dr. Omkar Goswami     a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent
                      c) Ambuja Cements Ltd.                    Non-executive, independent
                      d) Godrej Consumer Products Ltd.          Non-executive, independent


Anami N. Roy          a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent
                      b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent
                      c) Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd.   Non-executive, independent
                      d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.       Non-executive, independent
                      e) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                     Non-executive, independent
                      f)   Finolex Industries Ltd.              Non-executive, independent


Rakesh Sharma         a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Whole-time Director, executive


Ms. Lila Poonawalla   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent
                      b) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.              Non-executive, independent


Pradip Shah           a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent
                      b) Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd.             Chairman, non-executive,
                                                                independent
                      c) Pfizer Ltd.                            Non-executive, independent
                      d) KSB Ltd.                               Non-executive, independent
                      e) BASF India Ltd.                        Non-executive, independent
                      f)   Sonata Software Ltd.                 Chairman, non-executive,
                                                                independent
                      g) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.       Non-executive, independent




                                                                      13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    43
Corporate Governance




          Certificate from Practising Company Secretary
          The Company has received a certificate from Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary to
          the effect that none of the directors on the Board of the Company has been debarred or disqualified
          from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or
          any other statutory authority. The same forms part of this report.


          Review of legal compliance reports
          The Board periodically reviews compliance reports with respect to the various laws applicable to the
          Company, as prepared and placed before it by the Management.


          Code of conduct
          Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, requires listed companies to lay down a code of conduct
          for its directors and senior management, incorporating duties of directors as laid down in the Act.

          The Board at its meeting held on 15 September 2014 adopted a revised Code of Conduct for all
          Directors and Senior Management of the Company and the same has been placed on the Company’s
          website www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

          All Directors and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code for 2019-20.
          A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director and CEO is given in this Annual Report.


          Maximum tenure of independent directors
          The maximum tenure of independent directors is in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and
          regulation 25(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.


          Formal letter of appointment to independent directors
          The Company issues a formal letter of appointment to independent directors in the manner as
          provided in the Act. As per regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the terms and conditions of
          appointment of independent directors are placed on the Company’s website
          www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous


          Performance evaluation
          Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an
          annual performance evaluation of its own performance, and that of its Committees, Chairman and
          individual directors.

          The manner in which formal annual evaluation of performance was made by the Board is given below:

          l   The Nomination and Remuneration Committee at its meeting held on 15 March 2017, had approved
              the revised criteria for evaluation of the Board, its Committees, Chairman and individual directors,
              which is available on the website of the Company at www.bajajauto.com

          l   With a view to evaluating the performance of Board, its various Committees, individual directors
              and Chairman for the year 2019-20, the Company vide its e-mail dated 12 February 2020, informed
              the directors regarding the newly introduced automated process to carry out annual performance
              evaluation through an IT platform – ‘HR Craft’.

          l   From the individual ratings received from the directors, a report on summary of ratings in respect
              of performance evaluation of the Board, Committees, Chairman and Directors for the financial year
              2019-20 and a consolidated report thereof were arrived at by HR Craft.

          l   The report of performance evaluation so arrived at, was then noted and discussed by the Board at
              its meeting held on 20 May 2020.




44   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Corporate Governance




          l   The Nomination and Remuneration Committee reviewed the implementation and compliance of the
              performance evaluation at its meeting held on 20 May 2020.

          l   Under law, the Board shall determine, inter alia, whether to continue the term of appointment of the
              independent director, based on the report of performance evaluation.

          l   The term of appointment of Dr. Gita Piramal as an independent director ended on 31 March 2020.
              Based on the report of the performance evaluation and as recommended by the Nomination and
              Remuneration Committee, her re-appointment for a second term of five years was considered and
              approved by the Board, subject to approval of shareholders at the ensuing general meeting.

          l   Details on the evaluation of Board, non-independent directors and Chairman of the Company as
              carried out by the independent directors at their meeting held on 20 May 2020 have been furnished
              in a separate para elsewhere in this Report.


          Remuneration Policy
          The Board on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee has framed
          a Remuneration Policy. The policy, inter-alia, provides (a) the criteria for determining qualifications,
          positive attributes and independence of directors (b) a policy on remuneration for directors, key
          managerial personnel and other employees and (c) Employee Stock Option. The Policy is directed
          towards a compensation philosophy and structure that will reward and retain talent and provides
          for a balance between fixed and incentive pay reflecting short and long-term performance objectives
          appropriate to the working of the Company and its goals.

          The detailed Remuneration Policy is placed on the Company’s website
          www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


          Board Diversity Policy
          In compliance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board through its Nomination and
          Remuneration Committee has devised a policy on Board Diversity. The objective of the policy is to
          ensure that the Board comprises an adequate number of members with diverse experience and skills,
          such that it best serves the governance and strategic needs of the Company. The Board composition as
          at present broadly meets with the above objective.


          Familiarisation Programme
          With a view to familiarising the independent directors with the Company’s operations, as required
          under regulation 25(7) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has held various familiarisation
          programmes for the independent directors throughout the year on an ongoing and continuous basis.

          The details of familiarisation programmes are placed on www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


          Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil mechanism
          Pursuant to section 177(9) of the Act, regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and SEBI (Prohibition
          of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019
          amended the existing Whistle Blower Policy.

          The Whistle Blower Policy/Vigil mechanism provides a mechanism for the director/employee to report
          without fear of victimisation, any unethical behaviour, suspected or actual fraud, violation of the Code of
          Conduct and instances of leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information, which are detrimental to the
          organisation’s interest. The mechanism protects whistle blower from any kind of discrimination,
          harassment, victimisation or any other unfair employment practice. The Company affirms that no
          employee has been denied access to the Audit Committee.

          The directors in all cases and employees in appropriate or exceptional cases will have direct
          access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The said Policy is placed on the Company’s website
          www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies



46   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Corporate Governance




Dividend Distribution Policy
The Company has adopted Dividend Distribution Policy. More particulars about the same are given in
the Directors’ Report.


Subsidiary companies
The Company has three overseas subsidiaries, viz. PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia, Bajaj Auto International
Holdings BV, Netherlands and Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd., Thailand, which however, are not ‘material
subsidiaries’ as defined under regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.

The revised policy on ‘material subsidiaries’ in terms of regulation 16(1)(c) of the SEBI Listing
Regulations as approved by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019 is placed on
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codtes-policies

Provisions to the extent applicable as required under regulation 24 of the SEBI Listing Regulations with
reference to subsidiary companies were duly complied with.

During the year under review, the Audit Committee reviewed the financial statements (in particular,
the investments made) of its unlisted subsidiary companies, to the extent applicable. Minutes of the
Board meetings of the subsidiary companies as well as a statement of significant transactions and
arrangements entered into by the subsidiaries, as applicable, were regularly placed before the
Board of the Company.


Related party transactions
All related party transactions (RPTs) which were entered into by the Company during the year under
review, were on arms’ length basis and in the ordinary course of business and did not attract
provisions of section 188 of the Act and were also not material RPTs as per regulation 23 of the
SEBI Listing Regulations.

All RPTs during the year 2019-20 were entered into with the approval of the Audit Committee pursuant
to provisions of Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. The details of such transactions were placed
before the Audit Committee for noting/review, on a quarterly basis.

A statement showing the disclosure of transactions with related parties as required under Indian
Accounting Standard 24 (Ind AS 24) is set out separately in this Annual Report.

There were no material transactions entered into with related parties, during the year under review,
which may have had any potential conflict with the interests of the Company.

The revised policy on materiality of RPTs stipulating the threshold limits and also on dealing with RPTs
which was approved by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, pursuant to SEBI Listing
Regulations has been placed on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


Disclosures
Suitable disclosures have been made in the financial statements, together with the Management’s
explanation in the event of any treatment being different from that prescribed in the Ind AS.


Core Skill/Expertise/Competencies
As stipulated under Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, core skills/expertise/competencies, as
required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively and those actually
available with the Board have been identified by the Board of Directors.

As a green initiative, the Chart/Matrix of such core skills/expertise/competence along with the names
of directors who possess such skills is placed on website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies



                                                                              13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    47
Corporate Governance




          Audit Committee
          Pursuant to the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted an Audit Committee.
          The Board reviews the working of the Committee from time to time to bring about greater effectiveness
          in order to comply with the various requirements under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.

          In compliance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, all the members are
          independent, non–executive directors and are financially literate and have accounting or related
          financial management expertise.

          Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, the terms of reference of the
          Committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019. The revised terms of
          reference are in accordance with the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. The detailed terms of
          reference of Audit Committee have been placed on the Company’s website
          https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies.


          Meetings and attendance
          During 2019-20, the Audit Committee met four times viz. on 17 May 2019, 26 July 2019,
          23 October 2019 and 30 January 2020. The meetings were scheduled well in advance and not more
          than one hundred and twenty days elapsed between any two meetings.

          In addition to the members of the audit committee, these meetings were attended by the heads of
          finance and internal audit functions and the statutory auditor of the Company and those executives who
          were considered necessary for providing inputs to the Committee.

          The Company Secretary acted as the secretary to the Audit Committee.

          Table 4: Composition of Audit Committee and attendance record of members
          for 2019-20

          Name of director                     Category                                           No. of meetings attended



          Nanoo Pamnani*                       Chairman, non-executive, independent                                 4/4
          D J Balaji Rao                       Non-executive, independent                                           4/4
          Dr. Gita Piramal                     Non-executive, independent                                           4/4
          Dr. Naushad Forbes                   Non-executive, independent                                           4/4
          Anami N. Roy**                       Chairman, non-executive, independent                                 0/0
          *Ceased to be a Member and Chairman of the Committee consequent upon his sad demise on 22 February 2020
          **Appointed as a Member and Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 17 March 2020


          Pursuant to the terms of reference, the Audit Committee, inter alia, discussed and deliberated on the
          financial results, appointment/re-appointment of Statutory Auditors, review of internal audit functions,
          review and approval of related party transactions including granting of omnibus approval for the
          proposed transactions, review of investment related reports of the Company, utilisation of loans and/or
          advances from/investment by holding Company in the subsidiary etc.

          Nanoo Pamnani, the then Chairman of the Audit Committee, was present at the annual general meeting
          of the Company held on 26 July 2019, to answer shareholders’ queries.


          Nomination and Remuneration Committee
          Pursuant to the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted
          a Nomination and Remuneration Committee.

          Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the terms of reference of the Committee
          were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019. The Committee also acts as a



48   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                              Corporate Governance




Compensation Committee for implementation of the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
(BAL-ESOS 2019).

The detailed terms of reference of Nomination and Remuneration Committee have been placed on the
Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

During the year under review, the Committee met three times, i.e. on 17 May 2019, 26 July 2019 and
30 January 2020.

Table 5: Composition of Nomination and Remuneration Committee and attendance
record of members for 2019-20

Name of director               Category                                   No. of meetings attended



D J Balaji Rao                 Chairman, non-executive, independent                    3/3
Rahul Bajaj                    Chairman, executive                                     2/3
Dr. Naushad Forbes             Non-executive, independent                              3/3
Dr. Gita Piramal               Non-executive, independent                              3/3


The Company Secretary acted as the secretary to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.

As provided under the terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the
members, inter alia, deliberated on the following:
i)    Noting of provisions regarding number of meetings and quorum.
ii) Noting of updated terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
iii) Recommendation of remuneration payable to senior management
iv) Approval of revision in the remuneration payable to Executive Directors effective from 1 April 2019
v) Noting of delegation of administrative power to Bajaj Auto ESOP Trust
vi) Approval for grant of stock options under Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
      Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019)
vii) Approval of revision in the remuneration payable to Managing Director and CEO effective from
      1 April 2019
viii) Noting of option of Chairman waiving increase in his remuneration
ix) Appointment and continuation of Shri Rahul Bajaj as Non-executive Director, liable to retire
      by rotation w.e.f. 1 April 2020, with designation continuing as Chairman and approving
      the term thereof
x) Re-appointment of Shri Rajiv Bajaj as the Managing Director and CEO and fixing of remuneration
xi) Re-appointment of Dr. Gita Piramal as an independent director for a second term of five
      consecutive years

D J Balaji Rao, Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, was present at the annual
general meeting of the Company held on 26 July 2019, to answer shareholders’ queries.


Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
(“BAL-ESOS 2019”)
The BAL-ESOS 2019 has been formulated by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the
Board with an aim to provide competitive remuneration opportunities to employees of the Company,
including through annual incentive plans and long-term incentive plans. This was approved by the
Board at its meeting held on 30 January 2019, and by the members of the Company vide Special
Resolution through Postal Ballot on 13 March 2019, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, as amended
(‘SEBI SBEB Regulations’).




                                                                           13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l    49
Corporate Governance




          Risk Management Committee
          Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee
          consisting of composition as specified therein. Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI Listing
          Regulations, the terms of reference of the Committee were revised by the Board at its meeting held on
          13 March 2019. The terms of reference of the Committee, inter alia, include, to manage the integrated
          risk, to lay down procedures to inform the Board about risk assessment and minimisation procedures
          in the Company, to frame, implement and monitor the risk management plan for the Company and
          perform such other functions as the Board may deem necessary including cyber security etc.

          The Company has a Board-approved Risk Management framework. The Committee and the Board
          periodically review the Company’s risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that the
          Management identifies and controls risk through a properly defined framework.

          During the year under review, the Company did not trade in nor did it have any exposure in
          commodities market.

          Table 6: Composition of Risk Management Committee and attendance record of
          members for 2019-2020

                                                                                                     No meeting held
          Name of director                      Category                                             during the year



          Nanoo Pamnani***                      Chairman, non-executive, independent                                   –
          D J Balaji Rao                        Non-executive, independent                                             –
          Kevin D’sa*                           Chief Financial Officer                                                –
          Soumen Ray**                          Chief Financial Officer                                                –
          Anami N. Roy****                      Chairman, non-executive, independent                                   –
          * Ceased to be CFO and Member of the Committee w.e.f.18 May 2019
          ** Appointed as a Member of the Committee w.e.f. 18 May 2019
          ***Ceased to be a Member and Chairman of the Committee consequent upon his sad demise on 22 February 2020
          **** Appointed as a Member and Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 17 March 2020
          Note: The meeting of the Risk Management Committee, which was originally scheduled on 19 March 2020, had to be cancelled due to
          the pandemic corona virus. However, subsequently it was held on 20 May 2020 for the year 2019-20.



          Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
          Pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted a
          Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee. This Committee was constituted to specifically look into the
          shareholders’ and investors’ complaints on matters relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of annual
          report, non-receipt of dividend, payment of unclaimed dividends etc.

          In addition, the Committee also looked into matters that can facilitate better investor services and
          relations. The Board was kept apprised of all the major developments on investors’ issues through
          various reports and statements furnished to the Board from time to time throughout the year.

          Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the terms of reference of the Committee
          were revised by the Board at its meeting held on 13 March 2019.




50   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                        Corporate Governance




The detailed terms of reference of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee have been placed on the
Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies.

During the year under review, the Committee met on 30 January 2020 to, inter alia, review the status of
investors’ services rendered. At the meeting, the Committee also discussed in detail about the changes
in the management and organisational set up of KFin Technologies Pvt. Ltd. which was earlier known
as Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. and the implications thereof on the RTA operations relating to the Company.

Table 7: Composition of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and attendance
record of members for 2019-20
                                                                                              Attendance at the meeting
Name of director                       Category                                               held on 30 January 2020



D J Balaji Rao                         Chairman, non-executive, independent                                   Yes
Dr. Gita Piramal                       Non-executive, independent                                             Yes
Dr. Omkar Goswami                      Non-executive, independent                                             Yes


The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Compliance Officer.

The Secretarial Auditor was also present.

The Committee expressed its satisfaction on the overall status of compliance and actions taken on
various investor-related matters.

D J Balaji Rao, Chairman of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, was present at the annual
general meeting of the Company held on 26 July 2019, to answer shareholders’ queries.

Table 8: Investors’ complaints attended and resolved during 2019-20

Investors’ complaints                                                               Attended/resolved during 2019-20



Pending at the beginning of the year                                                                     2
Received during the year                                                                                 4
Disposed of during the year                                                                              5
Remaining unresolved at the end of the year                                                              1*
* As on 31 March 2020, there was 1 pending issue to be addressed or resolved. This complaint has since been resolved.


Pursuant to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations for dealing with physical unclaimed shares,
the Company has a demat account with HDFC Bank, titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd.-Unclaimed Suspense
Account’, to which all the unclaimed shares stand transferred in terms of the said circular.

More details on this subject and on shareholders’ related matters have been furnished in the chapter
on General Shareholder Information.




                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l    51
Corporate Governance




          Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee
          The Board at its meeting held on 4 February 2016, to meet the requirement of section 46 of the Act,
          read with rule 6 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 and regulation 39 of the
          SEBI Listing Regulations constituted a Committee of the Board to approve the issuance of duplicate
          share certificate in lieu of original share certificate lost or misplaced.

          During the year under review, the Committee met once on 30 January 2020.

          Table 9: Composition of the Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee and
          attendance record of members for 2019-20

                                                                                    Attendance at the meeting
          Name of director               Category                                   held on 30 January 2020



          Rahul Bajaj                    Chairman, executive                                      No
          Rajiv Bajaj                    Managing Director and CEO, executive                    Yes
          Sanjiv Bajaj                   Non-executive                                           Yes



          Independent Directors’ Meeting
          In compliance with Schedule IV to the Companies Act, 2013 and regulation 25(3) of the
          SEBI Listing Regulations, the independent directors held their separate meeting on 20 May 2020,
          without the attendance of non-independent directors and members of the management, to inter alia
          discuss the following:

          i) Noting of the report of Performance Evaluation for 2019-20 from Chairman of the Board;
          ii) Review the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a whole;
          iii) Review the performance of the Chairperson of the Company, taking into account the views of
               executive directors and non-executive directors;
          iv) Assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company
               Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform
               their duties;
          v) Noting and review of Informal meeting with senior management personnel.

          All independent directors were present at the meeting.

          The independent directors present elected Dr. Omkar Goswami as Chairman for the meeting,
          deliberated on the above and expressed their satisfaction on each of the matters. The independent
          directors meeting which was originally scheduled on 19 March 2020, had to be cancelled due to the
          pandemic corona virus.

          Remuneration of directors
          Pecuniary relationship/transaction with non-executive directors
          During the year under review, there was no pecuniary relationship/transaction with any non-executive
          director of the Company.

          The register of contracts is maintained by the Company pursuant to section 189 of the Act. The register
          is signed by all the directors present at the respective Board meetings.


          Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors
          Non-executive directors of the Company play a crucial role in the independent functioning of the
          Board. They bring in an external perspective to decision-making and provide leadership and strategic
          guidance while maintaining objective judgment. They also oversee the corporate governance
          framework of the Company.

52   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                 Corporate Governance




As stated earlier, the Remuneration Policy, inter alia, disclosing the criteria of making payments
to directors, key managerial personnel and employees is placed on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies


Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are paid sitting fees and commission as earlier stated in this Report.


Executive directors
During the year under review, the Company paid remuneration to Rahul Bajaj, Executive Chairman,
Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO and Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, Executive
Directors of the Company as provided in detail in an annexure to the Directors’ Report in section VI(A) of
Form MGT-9, i.e. extract of the Annual Return.

The Executive Directors are entitled to superannuation benefits payable in the form of an annuity from
an approved Life Insurance Company, which form part of the perquisites allowed to them. No pension is
paid by the Company.


Details of Remuneration to directors
As stated elsewhere in the report, the Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) for the benefit of the permanent employees and/or Directors of the
Company and/or its holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary Company(ies), but excluding independent
directors and any employee, who is a promoter or belongs to the promoter group.

During the year under review, none of the directors was paid any performance-linked incentive, apart
from Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, Executive Directors.

In 2019-20, the Company did not advance any loans to any of the non-executive directors and/or
Managing Director. Details of remuneration paid/payable to directors for the year 2019-20 are provided
in an annexure to the Directors’ Report in section VI(B) of Form MGT-9, i.e. extract of the Annual Return.


Shareholding of directors
Information on shares held by directors in the Company as on 31 March 2020 is provided in an
annexure to the Directors’ Report in section IV(v) of Form MGT-9, i.e. extract of the Annual Return.

Management
Management discussion and analysis
This is given as separate chapter in the Annual Report.


Disclosure of material transactions
Pursuant to regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Senior Management has made
periodical disclosures to the Board relating to all material financial and commercial transactions,
where they had (or were deemed to have had) personal interest that might have been in potential
conflict with the interest of the Company. The same was Nil, except in the case of one member of the
Senior Management, in whose case the disclosure was discussed, reviewed and found in order
by the Board.


Compliances regarding insider trading
Pursuant to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Company had a Board-approved
Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by insiders (‘Code of Conduct’) and a
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information
(‘Code of Fair Disclosure’).




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    53
Corporate Governance




          SEBI has amended SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations) 2015. In view of the amendment to
          the said Regulations, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, approved the
          following, with effect from 1 April 2019:

          a. Revised Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report trading by Designated Persons –
             which was further revised by the Board at its meeting held on 23 October 2019, pursuant to the
             amendments vide notification dated 25 July 2019 and 17 September 2019
          b. Revised Code of Practices and Procedures for fair disclosure of Unpublished
             Price Sensitive Information
          c. Revised Whistle blower policy
          d. Institutional mechanism for prevention of Insider Trading
          e. Amendment to the terms of reference of the Audit Committee
          f. List of designated persons for the Code of Conduct mentioned above

          The code of conduct and code of fair disclosure framed by the Company have helped in ensuring
          compliance with the requirements.

          Means of Communication
          Quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results and other public notices issued for the shareholders
          are published in numerous leading dailies, such as Financial Express, Business Standard, Kesari, Mint
          and Hindu Business Line. An official press release is also issued. The Company also sends the half-
          yearly financial results, along with a detailed write-up, to each household of shareholders.

          The Company has its own website, www.bajajauto.com which contains all important public domain
          information including presentations, if any, made to the media, analysts and institutional investors.
          The website contains information as prescribed under the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations including
          details of the corporate contact persons and share transfer agent of the Company, shareholding
          pattern etc.

          Section 20 and 136 of the Act, read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 permit companies to
          service delivery of documents electronically on the registered members’/shareholders’ email
          addresses. The Company, during the year under review, sent documents, such as notice calling the
          general meeting, audited financial statements, directors’ report, auditors’ report, credit of dividend
          intimation letters, etc. in electronic form at the email addresses provided by the shareholders and
          made available by them to the Company through the depositories. Shareholders desiring to receive the
          said documents in physical form continued to get the same in physical form, upon request, during the
          year under review.

          All financial and other vital official news releases and documents under the SEBI Listing Regulations
          are also communicated to the concerned stock exchanges, besides being placed on the
          Company’s website.




54   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                Corporate Governance




Information on general body meetings and details of special
resolution(s) passed
During the previous three years, the Annual General Meetings (AGM) of the Company were held at the
registered office of the Company at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 on the following dates
and time and special resolutions were passed there-at as under:

                                                   Details of special resolution(s)
Details of AGM      Date and time of AGM           passed at the AGM, if any



10th AGM            20 July 2017 at 12.15 p.m.                               Nil
11th AGM            20 July 2018 at 12.15 p.m.                               Nil
                                                   1. Approval of appointment of Rakesh Sharma as
                                                      a Whole-time Director, with the designation as
                                                      Executive Director

                                                   2. Appointment of Ms. Lila Firoz Poonawalla as an
                                                      independent director of the Company for a term
                                                      of five consecutive years with effect from
                                                      1 April 2019

                                                   3. Re-appointment of Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani
                                                      as an independent director of the Company for a
12th AGM            26 July 2019 at 12.15 p.m.
                                                      second term of five consecutive years with effect
                                                      from 1 April 2019

                                                   4. Re-appointment of Balaji Rao Jagannathrao
                                                      Doveton as an independent director of the Company
                                                      for a second term of five consecutive years with
                                                      effect from 1 April 2019

                                                   5. Maintaining the number of maximum directors
                                                      of the Company



Special resolutions passed through Postal Ballot
during 2019-20
The Company conducted following businesses through Postal Ballot during the year 2019-20:

1. Appointment and continuation of Shri Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj as Non-executive Director,
   liable to retire by rotation and with designation continuing as Chairman with effect from
   1 April 2020.
2. Approval for payment of remuneration to Shri Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj, Non-executive
   Director and Chairman.
3. Approval for adoption of new set of Articles of Association of the Company.
4. Approval to fix the Foreign Portfolio Investors’ investment limit.

The Company had appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary
(FCS No. 1587, CP No. 572) as Scrutiniser for conducting the postal ballot including remote
 e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l    55
Corporate Governance




          The Result of the Postal Ballot was announced on 16 March 2020 and details of voting results on the
          resolutions are as follows:

                                                                                         Votes (No. of shares and %)
          Sr. No.   Description                                                          In favour        Against



                    Appointment and continuation of Shri Rahulkumar Kamalnayan
                    Bajaj as Non-executive Director, liable to retire by rotation and     206,886,261       6,787,881
             1.
                    with designation continuing as Chairman with effect from                 (96.82%)          (3.18%)
                    1 April 2020
                    Approval for payment of remuneration to Shri Rahulkumar               211,129,244       2,544,641
             2.
                    Kamalnayan Bajaj, Non-executive Director and Chairman                    (98.81%)          (1.19%)
                    Approval for adoption of new set of Articles of Association of the    207,228,981       6,452,562
             3.
                    Company                                                                  (96.98%)          (3.02%)
                                                                                          201,476,016      28,414,198
             4.     Approval to fix the Foreign Portfolio Investors’ investment limit
                                                                                             (87.64%)        (12.36%)


          Procedure for postal ballot
          The Company had sent the postal ballot notice dated 30 January 2020 and postal ballot form
          along with postage pre-paid business reply envelope to members/beneficial owners through email
          at their registered email IDs and through physical copy to the members who have not registered their
          email IDs. The Company had also published notice in the newspapers for the information of the
          members. Voting rights were reckoned on the equity shares held by the members as on the cut-off
          date. The voting period for postal ballot and e-voting was from 14 February 2020 to 14 March 2020.

          The postal ballot results were intimated to the Stock Exchanges pursuant to regulation 44(3) of the
          SEBI Listing Regulations, as well as displayed on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/
          investors/e-voting-information. The Company has also complied with the procedure for Postal Ballot in
          terms of the provisions of section 110 of the Act read with Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and
          Administration) Rules, 2014.

          There is no immediate proposal for passing any resolution through postal ballot. None of the
          businesses proposed to be transacted in the ensuing annual general meeting requires passing of a
          special resolution through postal ballot.

          Details of capital market non-compliance, if any
          There was no non-compliance by the Company of any legal requirements; nor has there been any
          penalty/stricture imposed on the Company by any stock exchange, SEBI or any statutory authority on
          any matter related to capital markets during the last three years.

          Disclosure under Sexual Harassment of Women at
          Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
          Redressal) Act, 2013
          The disclosure as required under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
          and Redressal) Act, 2013 is given in the Directors’ Report of the Company.

          Compliance Certificate
          The MD and CEO and the CFO have certified to the Board with regard to the financial statements
          and other matters as required under regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II to the
          SEBI Listing Regulations.




56   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20   l   57
Corporate Governance




          Report on corporate governance
          This chapter, read together with the information given in the Directors’ Report and the chapters on
          Management Discussion and Analysis and General Shareholder Information, constitute the compliance
          report on Corporate Governance during 2019-20. The Company has been regularly forwarding the
          quarterly compliance report to the Stock exchanges as required under regulation 27(2) of the SEBI
          Listing Regulations.

          Statutory Auditors
          S R B C & CO LLP are the statutory auditors of the Company. Total fees paid by the Company and its
          subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis to the auditors including all entities in their network firm/entity of
          which they are a part is given below:
                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

                                                                                        Statutory          Other
          Sr. No.   Particulars                                                         Audit Fee         Services



             1      Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                                              1.80              1.98
             2      PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                                        –                  –
             3      Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV                                            –                  –
             4      Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                                      –                  –



          Auditors’ certificate on corporate governance
          The Company has obtained the certificate from its statutory auditors regarding compliance with the
          provisions relating to corporate governance laid down in Part E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing
          Regulations. This certificate is annexed to the Directors’ Report and will be sent to the stock exchanges,
          along with the Annual Report to be filed by the Company.

          Compliance of mandatory and discretionary
          requirements
          Mandatory
          The Company has complied with the mandatory requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations.


          Discretionary
          The Company has also complied with the discretionary requirements as under:


          1. The Board
              Since the Company has an executive Chairman, the requirement regarding non-executive Chairman
              is not applicable.


          2. Shareholder rights
              A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of significant events in the
              preceding six months is sent to each household of shareholders.


          3. Modified opinion(s) in audit report
              The Company confirms that its financial statements are with unmodified audit opinion.


          4. Reporting of Internal Auditor
              The Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.

58   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
    GENERAL
    SHAREHOLDER
    INFORMATION
13th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
Date                              22 July 2020
Time                              12.15 p.m.
Venue/Mode                        The Company is conducting meeting through video conferencing (‘VC’)/
                                  other audio visual means (‘OAVM’) pursuant to the MCA circulars. For details
                                  please refer to the Notice of AGM.

The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide its circular dated 8 April 2020, 13 April 2020 and 5 May 2020 has
provided an option to Companies to conduct Annual General Meeting during the Calendar Year 2020
through “VC or OAVM” and send financial statements (including board’s report, auditors report and
other documents to be attached therewith) through email only.

Accordingly, the Annual report of the Company for the year 2019-20 along with Notice of AGM are being
sent only by email to the members, and all other persons/entities entitled to receive the same and that
the 13th Annual General Meeting will be convened through VC or OAVM.

Financial calendar
Approval of audited annual results for year ending 31 March                     May
Mailing of annual reports                                                       June
Annual general meeting                                                          July
Unaudited first quarter financial results                                       July
Unaudited second quarter financial results                                      October
Unaudited third quarter financial results                                       January/early February



Share transfer agent
The Company has appointed Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd. as its share transfer agent and accordingly,
processing of share transfer/dematerialisation/rematerialisation and allied activities was outsourced
to Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad with effect from 10 July 2008.

All operations of Karvy Computershare Pvt. Ltd. were transferred to Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd. with
effect from 17 November 2018. Further, during the year under review, the name of Karvy Fintech
Pvt. Ltd. was changed to KFin Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘KFin’) with effect from
5 December 2019. All the share registry services are now handled in the name of KFin.

All physical transfers (to the extent permitted), transmission, transposition, issue of duplicate share
certificate(s), issue of demand drafts in lieu of dividend warrants etc. as well as requests for
dematerialisation/rematerialisation are being processed in periodical cycles at KFin. The work related
to dematerialisation/rematerialisation is handled by KFin through connectivity with NSDL and CDSL.




                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l   59
General Shareholder Information




           Dividend
           The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on 21 February 2020, declared an interim
           dividend of H 120 per equity share (1200%) of face value of H 10 each for the year 2019-20, payable to
           shareholders holding shares as on 4 March 2020. The same was credited/dispatched to the
           shareholders on 9 March 2020.

           The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed the above-referred interim dividend as final
           dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020. Dividend paid in the previous year was H 60
           per equity share (600%) of face value of H 10 each.

           Payment of dividend
           SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as
           ‘the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015’) read with SEBI circular dated 20 April 2018, require companies to
           use any electronic mode of payment approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment to the
           shareholders. Accordingly, the interim dividend, which was declared on 21 February 2020 was paid
           through electronic mode, where the bank account details of the shareholders were available. Where
           dividend was paid through electronic mode, intimation regarding such remittance has been sent
           separately to the shareholders. In case where the dividend could not be paid through electronic mode,
           payment has been made through physical instrument such as banker’s cheque or demand draft
           incorporating bank account details of such shareholders.

           Pursuant to aforesaid circular, the Company had written to shareholders holding shares in physical
           form requesting them to furnish details regarding their PAN and also their bank details for payment of
           dividend through electronic mode. Those shareholders who are yet to respond to the Company’s
           request in this regard are once again requested to take action in the matter at the earliest.

           For enabling payment of dividend in future through electronic mode, members holding shares in
           physical form are requested to furnish updated particulars of their bank account, to KFin along with a
           photocopy of a ‘cancelled’ cheque and self–attested copy of PAN card.

           Beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form are requested to furnish their bank account details
           to their respective depository participants and ensure that such changes are recorded by them
           correctly. The request to update particulars of bank account should be signed as per the specimen
           signature registered with KFin/depository participants, as the case may be.

           Unclaimed dividends
           As per section 124(5) of Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’), any money
           transferred by the Company to the unpaid dividend account and remaining unclaimed for a period of
           seven years from the date of such transfer shall be transferred to a fund called the Investor Education
           and Protection Fund (Fund) set up by the Central Government. Accordingly, the unpaid/unclaimed
           dividends for the financial years 2007-08 to 2011-12 have already been transferred by the Company to
           the said Fund from September 2015 onwards.

           Unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial year 2012-13 shall become due for transfer to the said
           Fund in August 2020. Members are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, for the
           financial year 2012-13, before such amount becomes due for transfer to the Fund. Communication is
           being sent to the members, who have not yet claimed dividend for the financial year 2012-13,
           requesting them to claim the same as well as unpaid dividend, if any, for the subsequent years.

           The Company has uploaded the details of unclaimed dividend on the Company’s website at
           www.bajajauto.com and also on website specified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
           www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/service




60   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                      General Shareholder Information




Transfer of shares to IEPF
Pursuant to section 124(6) of the Act, all shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid or
claimed for seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred by the Company, within a period of
thirty days of such shares becoming due to be transferred to IEPF.

Accordingly, in due compliance of the provisions of rule 6(3) of IEPF rules, 2016, the Company will send
individual letters through ordinary/speed post/e-mail to such shareholders, whose dividend from the
year 2012-13 has remained unclaimed, requesting them to claim the amount of unpaid dividend on or
before the Company proceeds with transfer of related shares to the demat account of IEPF. The
Company also publishes, on an annual basis, a notice in the newspapers intimating the members
regarding the said transfer and these details will also be made available on the Company’s website
www.bajajauto.com

During the year under review, the Company transferred 109,499 (P.Y. 23,791) equity shares of the face
value of H10 each in respect of 68 (P.Y. 55) shareholders to the demat account of the IEPF Authority held
with NSDL/CDSL. Details of such shareholders, whose shares are transferred to IEPF and their unpaid
dividends for the subsequent years are available to the concerned shareholders on the website of
the Company at www.bajajauto.com

Shareholders can claim such unpaid dividends and underlying shares transferred to the Fund
by following the procedure prescribed in the IEPF Rules. A link of the procedure to claim is available on
the Company’s website at www.bajajauto.com

Shareholders are requested to get in touch with the compliance officer for further details on the subject
at investors@bajajauto.co.in

Share transfer system
SEBI amended regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, prohibiting transfer of securities (except
transmission or transposition of shares) in physical form from 1 April 2019. Accordingly, the Company
has sent letters to members holding shares in physical form advising them to dematerialise their
holdings. During FY2020, no shares were transferred in the physical form except for those for whom
the transfer deed was lodged prior to 1 April 2019 and were returned due to deficiency in the document
and were thus re-lodged post 1 April 2019.

Share transfers received by the share transfer agent/Company are registered within 15 days from the
date of receipt, provided the documents are complete in all respects. The total number of shares
transferred in the physical category during 2019-20 was 73,029 shares versus 126,567 shares during
2018-19. The details thereof were placed before the Board on a quarterly basis.

Relaxation granted by SEBI in wake of the
COVID-19 pandemic
SEBI, considering the nation-wide lockdown, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, granted relaxation
by extending the timelines for processing various investor requests in case of physical securities
including rematerialisation of shares, transmission of shares, resolution of grievances, issue of
duplicate share certificates etc.

Dematerialisation/Rematerialisation of shares
During 2019-20, 385,827 shares were dematerialised, compared to 812,913 shares during 2018-19.
Total 75 shares were rematerialised during 2019-20 as compared to Nil during 2018-19.




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    61
General Shareholder Information




           Shares held in physical and electronic mode as on 31 March 2020 are as given in Table 1.

           Table 1: Shares held in physical and electronic mode

                                  Position as on 31 March 2020       Position as on 31 March 2019          Net change during 2019-20
                                                       % to total                          % to total                          % to total
           Particulars             No. of shares    shareholding     No. of shares      shareholding       No. of shares    shareholding



           Physical                  17,069,413              5.90      17,563,252                   6.07       (493,839)           (0.17)
           Demat
           NSDL                     265,787,712             91.85     265,641,510               91.80           146,202                0.05
           CDSL                        6,509,895             2.25        6,162,258                  2.13        347,637                0.12
           Sub-total                272,297,607             94.10     271,803,768               93.93           493,839                0.17
           Total                    289,367,020           100.00      289,367,020             100.00                  –                  –



           Stock code
           1. BSE Ltd.                                                                                      532977
           2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.                                                         BAJAJ-AUTO
           3. ISIN for depositories (NSDL and CDSL)                                                         INE917I01010
           4. Bloomberg                                                                                     BJAUT.IN
           5. Reuters                                                                                       BAJA.BO


           Listing on stock exchanges
           Shares of the Company are currently listed on the following stock exchanges:

           Name                                                     Address



           1. BSE Ltd. (BSE)                                        1st Floor, New Trading Ring Rotunda Building, P J Tower,
                                                                    Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001.
           2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)           Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor Plot No.C-1, G Block
                                                                    Bandra-Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051.

           Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company has entered into uniform Listing
           Agreement with BSE and NSE. For the year 2019-20, the listing fees payable to these stock exchanges
           have been paid in full.




62   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                         General Shareholder Information




Market price data
Table 2: Monthly highs and lows of Company’s shares during 2019-20
(L vis-à-vis BSE Sensex)

                                               BSE                                        NSE
Month                                  High                     Low                     High                 Low        Closing BSE Sensex



Apr-19                             3,100.00               2,836.00             3,110.00              2,831.00                              39,031.55
May-19                             3,145.55               2,903.00             3,149.95              2,901.00                              39,714.20
Jun-19                             3,078.55               2,716.90             3,077.95              2,786.00                              39,394.64
Jul-19                             2,925.00               2,400.00             2,927.95              2,442.20                              37,481.12
Aug-19                             2,814.45               2,475.95             2,813.95              2,473.60                              37,332.79
Sep-19                             3,026.30               2,690.15             3,027.15              2,721.45                              38,667.33
Oct-19                             3,255.00               2,852.80             3,255.00              2,854.95                              40,129.05
Nov-19                             3,289.50               3,119.25             3,289.00              3,105.20                              40,793.81
Dec-19                             3,286.00               3,145.05             3,286.40              3,142.05                              41,253.74
Jan-20                             3,239.00               3,005.00             3,239.95              3,000.00                              40,723.49
Feb-20                             3,315.00               2,851.00             3,315.15              2,850.45                              38,297.29
Mar-20                             2,944.00               1,793.10             2,944.50              1,788.65                              29,468.49




             Bajaj Auto Ltd. stock performance vs BSE Sensex, during 2019-20,
                               indexed to 100 on 31 March 2019

           160


           140


           120
   Price




           100


           80


           60


           40
                 Apr 19


                          May 19


                                      Jun 19


                                                 Jul 19


                                                           Aug 19


                                                                      Sep 19


                                                                               Oct 19


                                                                                           Nov 19


                                                                                                    Dec 19


                                                                                                               Jan 20


                                                                                                                         Feb 20


                                                                                                                                  Mar 20




                                                     31 March 2019 to 31 March 2020
                                                  BSE Sensex                              Bajaj Auto Share Price




                                                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                l   63
General Shareholder Information




           Distribution of shareholding
           Table 3 gives details about the pattern of shareholding across various categories as on 31 March 2020,
           while Table 4 gives the data according to size classes.

           Table 3: Distribution of shareholding across categories
                                                            31 March 2020                     31 March 2019
                                                                            % to total                     % to total
           Categories                                   No. of shares         capital    No. of shares       capital



           Promoters                                     155,263,104            53.66     148,105,032          51.18
           Friends and associates of promoters             22,607,209            7.81      29,822,882          10.31
           FPIs/FIIs                                       40,323,573           13.94      45,254,414          15.64
           Public Financial Institutions                   16,259,825            5.62      14,649,522           5.06
           Mutual Funds                                     8,817,622            3.05       6,282,566           2.17
           Nationalised and other banks                      287,213             0.10         263,269           0.09
           NRIs and OCBs                                    1,455,020            0.50       1,410,604           0.49
           Others                                          44,353,454           15.32      43,578,731          15.06
           Total                                         289,367,020           100.00    289,367,020          100.00



           Table 4: Distribution of shareholding according to size class as on 31 March 2020
                                                         No. of shareholders             Shares held in each class
           Category                                          Number                 %         Number                 %



           1 to 500                                          122,949            94.53       4,913,005           1.70
           501 to 1000                                          2,508            1.93       1,843,677           0.64
           1001 to 2000                                         1,539            1.18       2,259,206           0.78
           2001 to 3000                                           697            0.54       1,745,214           0.60
           3001 to 4000                                           376            0.29       1,321,220           0.46
           4001 to 5000                                           302            0.23       1,374,906           0.48
           5001 to 10000                                          650            0.50       4,699,820           1.62
           10001 and above                                      1,040            0.80     271,209,972          93.72
           Total                                             130,061           100.00    289,367,020          100.00



           Shareholders’ and investors’ grievances
           The Board of Directors of the Company has a Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee to specifically look
           into and resolve grievances of security-holders on various matters.

           Routine queries/complaints received from shareholders are promptly attended to and replied.
           Queries/complaints received during the period under review were relating to non-receipt of dividend
           by warrants as well as through electronic clearing service, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of
           transferred shares, non-receipt of procedure for issuing Duplicate share certificate as well as
           transmission of share certificates and change of address and/or bank particulars. As on
           31 March 2020, there was one pending issue to be addressed or resolved. This complaint has since
           been resolved.

           During the year, letters were received from SEBI/ROC/Stock Exchanges/Investors concerning four
           complaints filed by the shareholders on various matters.




64   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                       General Shareholder Information




In respect of each of these complaints, replies were sent to SEBI/ROC/Stock Exchanges/Investors in the
prescribed format, as the case may be and action on one complaint remained to be taken at the
Company’s end at the year end.

As a step towards green initiative, the Company has availed of special services offered by NSDL to
update email addresses of more number of shareholders of the Company who have not registered their
email addresses. This would enable such shareholders to immediately receive various email
communication from the Company from time to time including the annual report, dividend credit
intimation, half-yearly communication etc.

KPRISM-Mobile service application by KFIN
To enhance shareholders’ experience and with an aim to resolve shareholders’ grievance at the
earliest, KFin has launched a new mobile application – ‘KPRISM’ for providing online service to
shareholders. KPRISM can be accessed at http://kprism.karvy.com/ Shareholders may download
the mobile application and register themselves (which is a one time activity) for availing of a host
of services.

Demat suspense account with HDFC Bank for
unclaimed shares
In accordance with the provisions contained in clause 5A of the erstwhile Listing Agreement
(corresponding to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015) as amended by SEBI vide
circular dated 16 December 2010, the Company, during the year 2011-12, had sent three reminders to
such shareholders whose shares were lying ‘undelivered/unclaimed’ with the Company, followed by
opening of the unclaimed share suspense demat account with HDFC Bank in April 2012.

After completing the necessary formalities, 44,375 shares held by 148 shareholders were transferred
to the said suspense account in April 2012. Voting rights on such shares are to remain frozen till the
rightful owner claims the shares.

The Company, acting as a trustee in respect of the unclaimed shares, follows the modalities for the
operation of the said account in the manner set out in regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing
Regulations, 2015.

According to the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company has a demat account
titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd. – Unclaimed Suspense Account’ with HDFC Bank Ltd., Pune to which unclaimed
shares were transferred.

The summary of this account for the year 2019-20 is as follows:

                                                                          No. of              No. of
Sr. No.   Particulars                                                  shareholders           shares



    i.    Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding shares
          lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on 1 April 2019                 33                3,326
   ii.    No. of shareholders who approached the Company for
          transfer of shares from the Unclaimed Suspense Account
          during the year 2019-20                                                     1                  75
   iii.   No. of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
          the Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year 2019-20                      1                  75
   iv.    No. of shares transferred to IEPF Authority
          during the year 2019-20                                                    12                1,059
   v.     Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding
          shares lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account
          as on 31 March 2020                                                        20                2,192




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l   65
General Shareholder Information




           Nomination
           Individual shareholders holding shares singly or jointly in physical form can nominate a person in
           whose name the shares shall be transferable in the case of death of the registered shareholder(s).
           The prescribed nomination form (SH-13) will be sent by the share transfer agent of the Company upon
           such request and is also available on the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

           Nomination facility for shares held in electronic form is also available with depository participant.

           Credit Rating
           The Company has neither issued any debt instruments nor undertaken any fixed deposit programme
           or any scheme or proposal involving mobilization of funds, whether in India or abroad. However,
           the Company has obtained on 29 November 2019 ‘FAAA/stable’ rating from CRISIL on the Fixed
           Deposits of the Company. This rating indicates that the degree of safety of timely payment of interest
           and principal is very strong. The Company has also obtained on 29 November 2019 ‘AAA/Stable’ rating
           for long-term and ‘A1+’ rating for Short-term bank loan facilities of the Company from CRISIL.

           Live Webcast of Annual General Meeting
           Pursuant to regulation 44(6) of the SEBI Regulations, 2015, top 100 listed entities shall, with effect from
           1 April 2019, provide one-way live webcast of the proceedings of their AGM. Accordingly, as in the
           previous year, the Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin, to facilitate live webcast of the
           proceedings of the ensuing AGM scheduled on 22 July 2020.

           Members who are entitled to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of AGM by logging on
           the e-voting website of KFin at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ using the secure login credentials
           provided for e-voting.

           Pursuant to MCA Circular, the Company will also provide two way video conferencing or webex facility
           to the members for participating in the 13th Annual General Meeting. For more details, please refer the
           Notice of the 13th Annual General Meeting, which is hosted on the Company’s website at
           https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports and on the website of Stock exchanges.

           Voting through electronic means
           Pursuant to section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder and provisions
           under the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, every listed company is required to provide its members,
           the facility to exercise their right to vote at general meetings by electronic means.

           The Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin, the authorised agency for this purpose, to
           facilitate such e-voting for its members.

           The shareholders would therefore be able to exercise their voting rights on the items put up in the
           Notice of annual general meeting, through such e-voting method. Further, in accordance with the
           Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 and MCA circulars, the Company will also
           provide e-voting facility for members attending the AGM through VC or OAVM.

           Shareholders, who are attending the meeting through VC or OAVM and who have not already cast their
           votes by remote e-voting shall only be able to exercise their right of voting at the meeting.

           Cut-off date, as per the said Rules, shall be 15 July 2020 and the remote e-voting shall be open for a
           period of three days, from 19 July 2020 (9.00 a.m.) till 21 July 2020 (5.00 p.m.). The Board has appointed
           Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary as scrutiniser for the e-voting process.

           Detailed procedure is given in the Notice of the 13th annual general meeting and is also placed on
           the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports




66   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
General Shareholder Information




           Outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/
           warrants
           The company does not have any outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/warrants as on date
           of this Report.

           Shareholders may get in touch with the Company Secretary for further assistance.

           Plant locations
           Bajaj Auto has plants located at the following places:

           1.   Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 (Maharashtra)
           2.   Bajaj Nagar, Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136 (Maharashtra)
           3.   MIDC, Plot No. A1, Mahalunge Village, Chakan 410 501 Dist. Pune (Maharashtra)
           4.   Plot No. 2, Sector-10, IIE Pantnagar, Udhamsinghnagar 263 531 (Uttarakhand)

           Address for correspondence
           Investors and shareholders can correspond with the share transfer agent or the registered office of
           the Company at the following address:


           Share transfer agent
           KFin Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
           (previously known as Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd.)
           Unit: Bajaj Auto Ltd.
           Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31-32,
           Gachibowli Financial District, Nanakramguda,
           Hyderabad 500 032
           .
           Contact persons
           M S Madhusudhan
           Mohd. Mohsinuddin
           Tel. No: (040) 6716 2222/1562
           Fax No: (040) 2300 1153
           Toll free No: 1800 345 4001
           Email: mohsin@kfintech.com
           Website: www.kfintech.com


           Company
           Bajaj Auto Ltd.
           Mumbai-Pune Road,
           Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

           Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
           Dr. J Sridhar
           Tel. No: (020) 6610 6503
           Fax No: (020) 2740 7380
           Email: investors@bajajauto.co.in
           Website: www.bajajauto.com




68   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
    DIRECTORS’
    REPORT
The Directors present their Thirteenth Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the year
ended 31 March 2020.

Financial results
The financial results of the Company are elaborated in the Management Discussion and
Analysis Report.

The highlights of the Financial Results are as under:


Sales in Numbers                                                                                FY2020       FY2019


Two-wheelers                                                                                  3,947,568    4,236,873
Commercial vehicles                                                                             667,644     7,82,630
Total                                                                                         4,615,212    5,019,503
Of which Exports                                                                              2,171,105    2,078,730

                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                     FY2020       FY2019


Total revenue                                                                                 31,652.21    31,796.42
Total expenses                                                                                25,072.01    25,435.26
Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                        6,580.20     6,361.16
Exceptional items                                                                                     –     (342.00)
Profit before tax                                                                              6,580.20     6,703.16
Tax expense                                                                                    1,480.22     2,027.98
Profit for the year                                                                            5,099.98     4,675.18
Earnings per share (H)                                                                            176.3        161.6



Closing balances in reserve/other equity
                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                     FY2020       FY2019


General reserve                                                                                5,431.60     4,921.60
Retained earnings                                                                             14,750.44    16,451.58
Cash flow hedging reserve                                                                          5.63         60.31
Costs of hedging reserve                                                                       (121.81)       (17.47)
FVTOCI reserve                                                                                 (413.13)         74.51
Share based payments reserve                                                                      10.01              –
Treasury shares                                                                                  (26.62)             –
Total                                                                                         19,636.12    21,490.53
Note: Detailed movement of above reserves can be seen in ‘Statement of Changes in Equity’		




                                                                                          13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l   69
Directors’ Report




            Dividend
            Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 43A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
            Regulations, 2015, as amended, the Company has formulated a Dividend Distribution Policy. The Policy
            sets out the parameters and circumstances that will be taken into account by the Board in determining
            the distribution of dividend to its shareholders.

            As a green initiative, the policy has been uploaded on the website of the Company and can be accessed
            at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies. A copy of the policy will be made available to
            any shareholder on request by email.

            The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 21 February 2020, declared an interim dividend of
            H 120/- per equity share (1200%) of face value of H 10/- payable to shareholders holding shares as on
            4 March 2020. The amount of interim dividend and tax thereon aggregates to H 4,186.16 crore.

            The directors recommend for consideration of the shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting,
            the above-referred interim dividend as final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020.

            For the year ended 31 March 2019, the dividend paid was H 60 per share of H 10 each (600%) and the
            total dividend and the tax thereon to the extent applicable aggregated to H 2,093.08 crore.

            Share capital
            The paid up equity share capital as on 31 March 2020 was H 289.37 crore. There was no public issue,
            rights issue, bonus issue or preferential issue etc. during the year. The Company has not issued shares
            with differential voting rights or sweat equity shares. During the year under review, the Company
            granted 287,636 stock options pursuant to Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
            (‘BAL – ESOS 2019’).

            Operations
            Detailed information on the operations of the Company and details on the state of affairs of the
            Company are covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

            Capacity expansion and new projects
            The Company’s current installed capacity is 6.33 million units per annum.

            For decades, Bajaj Auto was synonymous with its Chetak, which has been re-introduced as a
            best-in-class electric scooter with an iconic design — creating a thing of beauty that transcends time.


            Research and Development and
            technology absorption
            A) Products
            Many new products were launched during the year under review. Detailed information on the new
            products is covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

            B) Process
            R&D has been working on improving its operations in a number of areas as listed below:

            l   Manpower: R&D has been expanding its team size in areas of design, analysis and validation in
                order to keep up with the rapidly expanding aspirations of the Company.

            l   Facilities: R&D continued to enhance its design, computing, prototype manufacturing and validation
                facilities. A number of new test facilities and prototyping facilities were added.



70    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                           Directors’ Report




C) Technology
As in the past, new and improved technology has been introduced during the year under review and the
detailed information on the same is covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.

D) Outgo
The expenditure on research and development during 2019-20 and in the previous year was:
                                                                                                   (H In Crore)

Particulars                                                                            FY2020        FY2019



i.   Capital (including technical know-how)                                             67.02           64.00
ii. Recurring                                                                          408.04         392.35
Total                                                                                  475.06        456.35
iii. Total research and development expenditure as a percentage of sales                1.63%          1.54%



Conservation of energy
Company continues its efforts to reduce and optimize the energy consumption at all its manufacturing
facilities, including corporate office at Pune.

Significant reduction in energy consumption has been achieved by various means as shown hereunder:


A)		 Electrical Energy
		      l     Installation of 5MWp Rooftop Solar Plant in Waluj for reducing our loads at discoms and for
              energy cost financial benefits.

		      l     Installation of energy efficient LED luminaries at various designated areas across all our
              factories for energy conservation.

		      l     Installation of Power Factor Controller panels at heavy fluctuating load areas for maintaining
              power quality and its associated losses.

		      l     DC Brushless motor installation in Vehicle Assembly Conveyor-D.

		      l     Day light pipes installation in various areas in plant premises.

		      l     Minimise compressed air losses by arresting minor and ultra leakages through advanced
              tool-Air leak detector system.

		      l     Miscellaneous equipment’s power wastage reduction through timer provision.

		      l     HVLS fan installation in SPD, Ph-2 V/A and CKD conveyor.

		      l     Man movement sensors are provided for lighting ON-OFF at various areas.

		      l     Paint shop inspection area lights interlocked with conveyor operation.

		      l     Paint shop inspection area, AHU ON-OFF switch provided near operator.

		      l     DM water transfer pump auto ON-OFF as per Conveyor operation.

		      l     Centralised operation of machines resulting in less power requirement of Aux. equipments.




                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l    71
Directors’ Report




            		      l   Provision of auto ON-OFF timer for inspection PDI area lights.

            		      l   Plaza-Replacement of 17 year old pump by energy efficient pumps-2 nos.

            		      l   ETP, STP and RO treated water pumps replacement by energy efficient pumps.

            		      l   Heat Pump installed for washing machines instead of electrical heaters
                        (cell no C3, C6 and H6)-3 nos.

            		      l   Cyl block Honing machine-Flushing pumps and magnetic separators to operate during
                        machine cycle only (3 nos).

            		      l   Cyl Head and Crank case FRD machine-Parameters optimisation for power consumption
                        reduction (14 nos).

            		      l   Countershaft Induction softening machine-Chilling unit design optimisation.

            		      l   Jig stripping Combustion blower-VFD for combustion blower motor-full speed to controlled
                        speed-as per application.

            		      l   Tank cell Pretreatment-tectalis 1 stage-Open loop to closed loop control of spray pump,
                        based on real time spray flow feedback (controlled pump speed).


            B)		 Water
            		      l   ETP Treated water re-use for feeding RO Plant.

            		      l   Rain water storage pond making with capacity 25,000 M3.

            		      l   ETP RO reject water mix with rain storage pond water and reuse to feed RO plant, resulting
                        in zero ground water use for Paint shop process.

            		      l   Minimise AHUs water consumption by arresting minor water leakages.

            		      l   Use of Aerator in hand wash water taps. Total installed-100 nos.

            		      l   Continuous reuse of STP treated water for toilet flushing, cooling towers and gardening.

            		      l   Provision of RO water for Paint shop ASU.

            		      l   Revisit of all AHU installations/Installation of New AHU for Vehicle assembly
                        (cellulose pad type).

            		      l   Continued rain water harvesting across all plants.

            		      l   Proper adherence to the water pumping schedule.

            		      l   Water chiller integration work and removal of many HVAC systems resulting in minimised
                        water consumption.

            		      l   All water cooled ACs are converted to Air Cooled.


            C)		 LPG/Propane
            		      l   Lacquer Oven auto ON-OFF in lunch and dinner time.

            		      l   Hot water rinse, KOD and Degreasing stages-Hot water generators ON-OFF optimised to
                        control bath temperature linearly and proportionally.




72    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Directors’ Report




		     l   Continued use of magnetic resonance in oven PNG supply.

		     l   Continued use of low temp chemical for pretreatment.

		     l   Use of energy efficient burners in canteen.

		     l   Regular JH/PM of burners.

D)		 Utilisation of renewable energy-key initiatives
		     l   Usage of Rooftop Solar Power Generation ( Waluj ) 5MWp, utilising 20,000 units of renewable
           energy daily for designated shops.

		     l   100% usage of rain water storage pond.

		     l   Solar water heater installed in canteen.

		     l   Day light pipe installation. During the year, 41 nos. day light pipe installed. Total day light pipe
           installed- 200 nos.

		     l   Use of Solar Energy ( Plant capacity 2 MW )- Total Solar units generated and utilised during
           the year are 22.71 LKWH

		     l   Use of Turbo Ventilators in Paint shop and Dispatch area for roof exhaust.

		     l   Present Roof Top Solar power capacity-3.22 MWp (Akurdi)- Total units generated
           32.738 lakh KWH. Total savings H 292.22 lakh.

Impact of measures taken
As a result of the initiatives taken for conservation of energy and natural resources, the Company has
effected an overall reduction in consumption as given in the Table below:-

                                                                         % Reduction w.r.t. previous year
Description                                                                      FY2020                FY2019



Electricity consumption                                                              1.20                  5.53
Water consumption                                                                  17.43                   3.27
LPG/PNG consumption                                                                  3.97                  1.05




Investment/savings
                                                                                                     (H In Crore)

Description                                                                      FY2020                FY2019



Investment for energy conservation activities                                        1.61                  1.51
Recurring savings achieved through above activities                                  0.61                  3.73


Awards and Accolades
BAL manufacturing plant at Chakan received the TPM Advance Special Award.
BAL Waluj plant received the IMS certification (EMS + OSHAS).




                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l   73
Directors’ Report




            International Business
            Despite the lockdown in March 2020, Bajaj Auto exported over 2.17 million vehicles viz. 4.4% over
            the previous year and the Company continues to remain by far, India’s No.1 exporter of two and
             three wheelers.

            It exports to over 79 countries in Latin America, Africa, South Asia, Middle East, Asia Pacific and Europe.
            During the year under review, exports accounted for 42.00% of the Company’s net sales as against
            40.01% in FY19. Detailed information on the International Business is given in the Management
            Discussion and Analysis Report.

            Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
            The Company continued to be a net foreign exchange earner during the year.

            Total foreign exchange earned by the Company during the year under review was H 11,872.37 crore,
            as compared to H 11,434.23 crore during the previous year.

            Total foreign exchange outflow during the year under review was H 908.51 crore, as against
            H 973.07 crore during the previous year.

            Industrial relations
            This year, BAL embarked on the process map towards reinventing Transformation. Industrial setup has
            not only set new benchmarks, but also streamlined its business excellence through Productivity
            and People Engagement.

            Industrial relations with staff and workmen across all the plants viz. Akurdi, Waluj, Chakan and
            Pantnagar, continued to be cordial.

            To ensure healthy relation with workmen, the process for signing long-term settlement for Chakan,
            Akurdi and Pantnagar manufacturing units has already been initiated and all efforts are being made to
            complete the process amicably in a congenial atmosphere.

            The active participation and 100% engagement became the fulcrum for business excellence. BAL has
            been able to inculcate TPM culture and continuous improvement across all plants. Once again,
            manufacturing has set up a new benchmark through several credentials. Plants have received several
            awards from Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI) and other
            prestigious organisations.

            Keeping business excellence as our centre of mass, we have not only improvised engagement
            activities, but also tried to instil trust and confidence through innovative engagement framework.
            Various employee engagement activities like monthly Kaizen competitions, Sports meet, Yoga session,
            Singing and Trekking events, Felicitation of employee meritorious student and applauding newly
            married couple are being organised to inculcate sense of belongingness amongst the employees
            across the plants.

            Subsidiaries and joint ventures
            PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (PT BAI)
            Routine business operations of PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia, a 99.25% subsidiary of Bajaj Auto,
            remain discontinued.

            Indonesia continues to be a large market for two-wheelers and hence of interest for PTBAI, with a
            market size in excess of 6.4 million vehicles.

            While this industry has grown by 2% in this year, it largely comprises scooters and the addressable
            market size for PTBAI stands at 164,000/annum units in the Sports category which recorded a decline
            of 17% this year and 59,000 units/annum in the Super sports category, which recorded a decline of
            36% this year.

74    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Directors’ Report




            The Super sports category of the market is now addressed through various models of KTM brand, using
            the CKD-distributor model.

            For the addressable market in the Sports category, PTBAI would continue to study the evolving market
            and is evaluating different possible opportunities.


            Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV, Netherlands (BAIH BV)
            Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV) is a 100% Netherlands-based subsidiary of
            Bajaj Auto Ltd. Over the years, through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total
            of €198.1 million (H1,219 crore), and holds approximately 48% stake in KTM AG of Austria (KTM).

            Calendar year 2019 has been another record year for KTM, with highest sales of 213,949 units
            and highest turnover of €1.51 billion in the history of the Company. Detailed information on the
            developments at the subsidiary and KTM AG is provided in the Management Discussion and
            Analysis Report.

            In its annual gerneral meeting for the calendar year 2019, KTM AG declared a dividend of €2.50 per
            share. On this account, BAIH BV has received €13.0 million (H109 crore) as its share of dividend for
            calendar year 2019.


            Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
            During the year, Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand
            with an issued and subscribed capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H 11 crore). We have also obtained
            the necessary approvals from local authorities to set up an International Business Centre (IBC) and
            a R&D Centre under this subsidiary.

            The IBC will be leveraged to identify suitable business partners, gather key market insights and manage
            as well as oversee Bajaj Auto’s business operations across the ASEAN region. The R&D centre will be
            the first Bajaj R&D design office outside India.

            Thailand is an advanced motorcycle market and it defines as well as leads the trends in South East
            Asian markets. Many international designers have already joined the Bajaj R&D team for working from
            this new facility. The new design centre marks the beginning of Bajaj R&D expanding its design centres
            to trend-defining markets around the globe.

            Investment in Yulu
            During the year under review, Bajaj Auto has done a strategic investment in Yulu Bikes.

            Yulu is a Bengaluru-based start-up Company in India which operates in lithium battery powered electric
            two-wheeler, bicycle space and owns a dockless bike sharing platform. It is focused on sub 5 km first
            and last mile connectivity.

            We believe that the two factors of congestion reduction and pollution control will drive the segment of
            shared micro-mobility in the future. That coupled with the expansion of Mass Rapid Transport System
            like Metro in large cities will further boost the demand for flexible last-mile connectivity.

            Through this strategic investment in Yulu, Bajaj will keep abreast of the developments and will
            participate in this area as it evolves.

            Anti-corruption Initiatives
            The Company has established many policies to prevent corruption within the Company. The policies are
            also suitably integrated into the business operations. The Company also has adequate disclosure
            practices with regard to anti-corruption activities. Some of the practices and policies are given below:




76    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Directors’ Report




Signing of anti-corruption initiative of
World Economic Forum (WEF)
In support of the initiative taken by WEF, with a view to strengthening the efforts to counter bribery and
corruption, your Company is a signatory to the ‘Commitment to anti-corruption’ and is supporting the
‘Partnering Against Corruption-Principles for Countering Bribery’ derived from Transparency
International’s Business Principles. This calls for a commitment to two fundamental actions
viz. a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and development of a practical and effective
implementation programme.


Adoption of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Charters
Your Company, being a member of CII, has adopted the following Codes/Charters:

1.   CII Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action;
2.   Model Code of Conduct for Ethical Business practices;
3.   Charters of Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Collaborative Employee Relations; and
4.   Charters on Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Contract Labour.

More details on the subject are given in the Business Responsibility Report hosted on the Company’s
website on https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

Extract of Annual Return
The extract of annual return as provided under sub-section (3) of section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013,
in the prescribed form MGT-9 is annexed to this Report and also on the Company’s website
https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

Number of meetings of the Board
There were eight meetings of the Board held during the year. Detailed information is given in the
Corporate Governance Report.

Directors’ responsibility statement
As required under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, directors, to
the best of their knowledge and belief, state that-

l    in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable Accounting Standards had been followed
     along with proper explanation relating to material departures;

l    the directors had selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made
     judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of
     the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of the
     Company for that period;

l    the directors had taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting
     records in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of
     the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;

l    the directors had prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis;

l    the directors had laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and that such
     internal financial controls were adequate and were operating effectively; and

l    the directors had devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable
     laws and that such systems were adequate and were operating effectively.




                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    77
Directors’ Report




            Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors
            under section 143(12)
            During the year under review, there were no frauds reported by the auditors to the Audit Committee or
            the Board under section 143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013.

            Declaration by independent directors
            The independent directors have submitted the declaration of independence, as required pursuant to
            section 149(7) of the Companies Act, 2013 stating that they meet the criteria of independence as
            provided in section 149 (6) of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended and Regulation 16 of the SEBI
            (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations’),
            as amended.

            The Board took on record the declaration and confirmation submitted by the independent directors
            regarding their meeting the prescribed criteria of independence, after undertaking due assessment
            of the veracity of the same as required under Regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, 2015.

            The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide its circular dated 22 October 2019 further amended the
            Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 by requiring an independent
            director to apply online, within 1 May 2020, to the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs for inclusion
            of his/her name in the data bank for such period till he/she continues to hold office of an independent
            director in any Company. The independent directors were also required to submit a declaration of
            compliance in this regard. All the independent directors of the Company have submitted the declaration
            with respect to the same.

            Directors’ Remuneration Policy and criteria for
            matters under section 178
            The Board, at its meeting held on 13 March 2019, has revised the commission from H 150,000 to
            H 250,000 payable per meeting to all non-executive directors (including independent directors) for
            meetings of Board and Committees thereof attended by them from 1 April 2019 onwards as member.

            The salient features and changes to the policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration form a part
            of the ‘Corporate Governance Report’. The said policy is placed on the Company’s website
            https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies

            Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments
            Information regarding loans, guarantees and investments covered under the provisions of section 186
            of the Companies Act, 2013 are detailed in the financial statements.

            Related party transactions
            No related party transactions (RPTs) were entered into by the Company during the financial year, which
            attracted the provisions of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013. There being no ‘material’ related
            party transactions as defined under regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, 2015, there are no details to
            be disclosed in Form AOC-2 in that regard.

            During the year 2019-20, pursuant to section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and regulation 23
            of Listing Regulations, 2015, all RPTs were placed before the Audit Committee for its approval.

            Pursuant to regulation 23 of Listing Regulations, 2015, the Board, at its meeting held on
            13 March 2019, has revised the policy on materiality of RPTs and on dealing with RPTs inter
            alia by including clear threshold limits.

            The revised policy on materiality of RPTs as approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s
            website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/codes-policies



78    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Directors’ Report




            Material changes and commitments
            There have been no material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Company,
            which have occurred between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.

            Risk Management Policy
            Information on the development and implementation of a Risk Management Policy for the Company
            including identification therein of elements of risk, which in the opinion of the Board may threaten the
            existence of the Company, is given in the Corporate Governance Report.

            Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
            Detailed information on the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy developed and implemented by the
            Company on CSR initiatives taken during the year pursuant to section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 is
            given in the annexed Annual Report on CSR activities.

            Formal annual evaluation of the performance
            of the Board, its Committees, Chairperson and
            Individual Directors
            Information on the manner in which formal annual evaluation has been made by the Board of its own
            performance and that of its Committees, Chairperson and Individual Directors is given in the Corporate
            Governance Report.

            Presentation of financial statements
            The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2020 have been disclosed as per
            Division ll of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.

            Indian Accounting Standards, 2015
            The annexed financial statements comply in all material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards
            (Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, Companies (Indian Accounting
            Standards) Rules, 2015 and other relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.

            Consolidated financial statements
            The directors also present the audited consolidated financial statements incorporating the duly audited
            financial statements of the subsidiaries, and as prepared in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013,
            applicable Accounting Standards and Listing Regulations, 2015 as prescribed by SEBI.

            Statutory disclosures
            The summary of the key financials of the Company’s subsidiaries (Form AOC-1) is included in this
            Annual Report. A copy of the audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be
            made available to the members of the Company, seeking such information at any point of time by email.

            The audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be available for inspection
            upto the date of AGM by any member of the Company on Company’s website www.bajajauto.com

            Details as required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with
            rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,
            as amended, containing, inter alia, ratio of remuneration of directors and KMP to median remuneration
            of employees and percentage increase in the median remuneration are annexed to this Report.

            Details of top ten employees in terms of the remuneration and employees in receipt of remuneration as
            required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 5(2) and
            5(3) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended,



80    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Directors’ Report




which form part of the Directors’ Report, will be made available to any shareholder on request, as per
provisions of section 136(1) of the said Act.

The directors’ responsibility statement as required by section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013,
appears in a preceding paragraph.

A Cash Flow Statement for the year 2019-20 is attached to the Balance Sheet.

The provisions of section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, are not applicable to the Company.
Accordingly, there is no requirement of maintenance of cost records as specified under sub-section (1)
of section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013.

Pursuant to the legislation ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013’, the Company has a policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace.
During the year under review, one complaint was received from one of the employees, which was
investigated and redressed by the Internal Complaints Committee formed under the aforesaid
Act and closed.

There was no other case reported during the year under review under the said policy.

Directors and Key Managerial Personnel-changes
I. Changes in Directorate:
   (a) Your directors express their profound grief on the sudden demise of Nanoo Pamnani.
       He passed away on 22 February 2020 and consequently ceased to be a director of the
       Company. The Board places on record its sincere appreciation of the invaluable guidance and
       services rendered by late Nanoo Pamnani during his long tenure as an independent director of
       the Company.

   (b) Rahul Bajaj, the Whole-time director and Chairman of the Company who has been a director of
       the Company since 1 April 1970, was last re-appointed by the Board for a five year term from 1
       April 2015 to 31 March 2020. As part of succession planning and due to certain commitments
       and other pre-occupation, Rahul Bajaj has decided not to continue as a Whole-time director of
       the Company after expiry of the current term on 31 March 2020. He has, however, offered to
       continue as a Non-executive director and Chairman of the Company. The Board at its meeting
       held on 30 January 2020, pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration
       Committee approved the appointment and continuation of Rahul Bajaj as Non-executive
       director with designation continuing as Chairman with effect from 1 April 2020. Consent of
       the members by way of special resolution was also obtained by the Company through Postal
       Ballot in compliance with Regulation 17(1A) of Listing Regulations, 2015, for appointment and
       continuation of Rahul Bajaj on account of his having already attained the age of 75 years.


II. Appointment/Re-appointment of independent directors:
   (a) The Board at its meeting held on 17 March 2020, pursuant to the recommendation of
       Nomination and Remuneration Committee and taking into account the report of performance
       evaluation, re-appointed Dr. Gita Piramal (DIN 01080602) as an independent director for
       a second consecutive term of 5 years with effect from 1 April 2020.

   (b) The Board at its meeting held on 20 May 2020, pursuant to the recommendation of Nomination
       and Remuneration Committee, appointed Abhinav Bindra (DIN 00929250) as additional director
       and independent director for a period of 5 years with effect from 20 May 2020.

The Board opines that the independent directors so appointed/re-appointed are of integrity and
possess the requisite expertise and experience (including the proficiency).

Necessary details regarding the appointment and re-appointment as required under the Companies
Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations, 2015 are given in the notice of annual general meeting. The aforesaid
appointments are subject to approval of shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting.



                                                                            13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    81
Directors’ Report




            III. Retirement by Rotation:
                The independent directors hold office for a fixed term not exceeding five years from the date of their
                appointment and are not liable to retire by rotation.

                The Companies Act, 2013, mandates that at least two–thirds of the total number of directors
                (excluding independent directors) shall be liable to retire by rotation. Accordingly, Madhur Bajaj
                (DIN 00014593) and Shekhar Bajaj (DIN 00089358), Directors, being the longest in the office
                amongst the directors liable to retire by rotation, retire from the Board by rotation this year and,
                being eligible, have offered their candidature for re–appointment.

                Brief details of Madhur Bajaj and Shekhar Bajaj, Directors, who are seeking re–appointment are
                given in the notice of annual general meeting.


            IV. Re-appointment of Managing Director and CEO
                Rajiv Bajaj was re-appointed as the Managing Director of the Company for a period of 5 years
                from 1 April 2015 up to 31 March 2020. The Board, on recommendation of the Nomination and
                Remuneration Committee and after evaluating his performance and considering the Company’s
                growth under his management, approved his re-appointment for a further term of 5 years
                commencing 1 April 2020, subject to approval of the shareholders.

                Accordingly, resolution seeking his re-appointment for a further term of 5 years and brief details of
                Rajiv Bajaj are given in the notice of annual general meeting.

            There was no other change in the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel during the year under
            review since the last report.

            Detailed information on the directors is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.

            Postal Ballot
            During the year under review, approval of shareholders was sought for the below businesses, through
            Postal Ballot. All the resolutions were passed by requisite majority.

            l   Appointment and continuation of Shri Rahul Bajaj as Non-executive Director, liable to retire by
                rotation w.e.f. 1 April 2020 and with designation continuing as Chairman

                Pursuant to regulation 17(1A) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, approval of members was obtained
                for appointment and continuation of Shri Rahul Bajaj as Non-executive director with designation
                continuing as Chairman with effect from 1 April 2020 and on account of his having already attained
                the age of 75 years by way of special resolution.

            l   Approval for payment of remuneration to Shri Rahul Bajaj, Non-executive Director and Chairman

                Pursuant to regulation 17(6)(ca) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, approval of shareholders is
                required annually, in case remuneration payable to a single Non-executive director exceeds the limit
                of 50% of the total remuneration payable to all the Non-executive directors annually.

                For the reason that the amount of remuneration payable to Shri Rahul Bajaj for the financial year
                2020-21 may exceed 50% of the total annual remuneration payable to all Non-executive directors
                for the said year, approval of members was obtained by way of special resolution by way of an
                enabling provision.

            l   Amendment to Articles of Association

                The Articles of Association of the Company were amended in its entirety as per the form specified
                in Table F in Schedule I to the Companies Act, 2013 including insertion of an enabling provision for
                appointment of any person who has rendered significant or distinguished services to the Company
                or to the industry to which the Company’s business relates or in the public field, as
                “Chairman Emeritus”.

82    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                       Directors’ Report




l   Investment limit of Foreign Portfolio Investors

    The Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs), vide its notification dated 17 October
    2019, superseded the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person
    Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2017 and the Foreign Exchange Management (Acquisition
    and Transfer of Immovable Property in India) Regulations, 2018 with the introduction of Foreign
    Exchange Management (Non-debt Instruments) Rules, 2019.

    As per the said rules, the existing FPI limit with effect from 1 April 2020, will be the sectoral cap
    i.e. 100 per cent in case of the Company. The said limit can be changed to 24 or 49 or 74 per cent
    with approval of the Board and the shareholders. Accordingly, pursuant to the approval of the
    shareholders by means of a special resolution through Postal Ballot, the investment limit of Foreign
    Portfolio Investors was fixed at 24 per cent. As per the said rules, the said limit can be enhanced to
    49 per cent, 74 per cent or 100 per cent, but cannot be reduced. For details of the shareholding of
    Foreign Portfolio Investors, please refer the annexed ‘Extract of Annual Return’

Significant and material orders passed by the
regulators or courts
During the year under review, there were no significant and material orders passed by the regulators
or courts or tribunals, which may impact the going concern status of the Company and its operations
in future.

COVID-19 Impact
Towards the end of March 2020, many of the States/Union Territories across the country in view of the
heightened concern over the spread of Corona Virus Disease (‘COVID-19’) issued directives inter-alia, to
facilitate work from home for majority of its employees. In line with the lockdowns announced by the
Central Government, all offices of the Company were closed from 23 March 2020 providing employees
facility to “Work from Home” to ensure continuity of operations of the Company. The said closure(s)
have adversely affected the operations of the Company and the impact of the same cannot be assessed
at this point of time. However, this does not affect the going concern status of the Company.

Details of internal financial controls with reference
to the financial statements
The Company has documented its internal financial controls considering the essential components of
various critical processes, physical and operational. This includes its design, implementation and
maintenance, along with periodical internal review of operational effectiveness and sustenance, which
are commensurate with the nature of its business and the size and complexity of its operations.

This ensures orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
policies, safeguarding of its assets, prevention of errors, accuracy and completeness of the accounting
records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information.

The internal financial controls with reference to the financial statements were adequate and
operating effectively.

Corporate governance
Pursuant to Listing Regulations, 2015, a separate chapter titled ‘Corporate Governance’ has been
included in this Annual Report, along with the reports on Management Discussion and Analysis and
General Shareholder Information.

All Board members and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of
Conduct for the year 2019-20. A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director (CEO) of the
Company is contained in this Annual Report.




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l    83
Directors’ Report




            The Managing Director and CFO have certified to the Board with regard to the financial statements and
            other matters as required under regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations, 2015.

            Certificate from the Auditors of the Company regarding compliance of conditions of corporate
            governance is annexed to this Report.

            Employee stock option scheme
            During the year under review, there has been no change in the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
            Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) of the Company.

            A Statement giving complete details, as at 31 March 2020, pursuant to regulation 14 of the SEBI
            (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 is available on the website of the Company
            https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

            Business Responsibility Report
            Regulation 34(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, as amended, inter alia, provides that the annual
            report of the top 500 listed entities based on market capitalisation (calculated as on 31 March of every
            financial year), shall include a Business Responsibility Report.

            Since Bajaj Auto Ltd. is one of the top 500 listed entities, the Company, as in the previous years, has
            presented its BR Report for the financial year 2019-20, which is part of this Annual Report.

            As a green initiative, the BR Report has been hosted on the Company’s website
            https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

            A copy of the BR Report will be made available to any shareholder on request by email.

            Secretarial Standards of ICSI
            Pursuant to the approval given on 10 April 2015 by the Central Government to the Secretarial
            Standards specified by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, the Secretarial Standards on
            Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) came into effect from 1 July 2015.
            The said standards were further amended w.e.f. 1 October 2017. The Company is in compliance with
            the same.

            Statutory Auditor
            Pursuant to the provisions of section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013, the members at the annual
            general meeting of the Company held on 20 July 2017 appointed S R B C & CO LLP (Firm Registration
            No. 324982E/E300003) as statutory auditors of the Company from the conclusion of 10th annual
            general meeting till the conclusion of 15th annual general meeting, covering one term of five
            consecutive years.

            The statutory audit report for the year 2019-20 does not contain any qualification, reservation or
            adverse remark or disclaimer made by statutory auditor.




84    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Directors’ Report




            Secretarial Auditor
            Pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder,
            the Company has re-appointed, Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary
            (Membership No.1587, CP No. 572) to undertake the secretarial audit of the Company. Secretarial audit
            report for the year 2019-20 issued by him in the prescribed form MR-3 is annexed to this Report.

            The said secretarial audit report does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark or
            disclaimer made by the Secretarial Auditor.

            In addition to the above and pursuant to SEBI circular dated 8 February 2019, a report on secretarial
            compliance by Shyamprasad D Limaye for the year ended 31 March 2020 is being submitted to stock
            exchanges. There are no observations, reservations or qualifications in the said report.


            On behalf of the Board of Directors,




            Rahul Bajaj
            Chairman
            Pune: 20 May 2020




86    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Directors’ Report




Annual Report on CSR activities
1. Brief outline of Company’s CSR Policy, including overview of projects or programmes proposed
   to be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the CSR Policy and projects or programmes.


   Introduction
   The vision and philosophy of late Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the Corporate
   Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the group. He embodied the concept of
   trusteeship in business and common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and
   transparent functioning.

   Bajaj Group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond
   balance sheets or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business
   and industry make to the lives of people.

   Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the
   vicinity of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
   conservation, infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities.
   For society, however, Bajaj is more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment
   and the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.

   It is this goodwill that has made us “The World’s Favourite Indian”


   Guiding principles:
   The Bajaj Group believes that social investments should:

   l   Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
       generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society
       over long periods.
   l   Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
       strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.
   l   Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education and
       productivity.
   l   Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
       to create excellence for self and for the team.
   l   Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it
       has a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.
   l   Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
       lowest rung irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.
   l   Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
       adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.


   CSR Policy
   A detailed CSR Policy was framed by the Company on 14 May 2014, with approvals of the CSR
   Committee and Board of Directors. The Policy, inter alia, covers the following:

   l   Philosophy
   l   Scope
   l   List of CSR activities
   l   Modalities of execution of Projects/Programmes
   l   Implementation through CSR Cell
   l   Monitoring and Assessment of Projects/Programmes

   CSR Policy gives an overview of the projects or programmes, which are undertaken by the Company
   from time to time.

   The CSR Policy is placed on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/pdf/csr-policy-bal.pdf



                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    87
Directors’ Report




            2. Composition of the CSR Committee

                A Committee of the directors, titled ‘Corporate Social Responsibility Committee’, which was
                constituted by the Board at its meeting held on 28 March 2014 with the following members:

                Rahul Bajaj, Chairman
                Rajiv Bajaj
                Nanoo Pamnani
                Pradeep Shrivastava

                Consequent upon the sad demise of Nanoo Pamnani on 22 February 2020, the CSR Committee was
                re-constituted with induction of Dr. Naushad Forbes as a member with effect from 17 March 2020.

                During the year under review, the Committee met five times on 9 May 2019, 19 August 2019,
                14 October 2019, 23 December 2019 and 16 March 2020.

            3. Average net profit of the Company for last three financial years prior to 2019-20:
               H 5,940.18 crore

            4. Prescribed CSR Expenditure (2% of amount as in item No.3): H 118.80 crore.

            5. Details of CSR spent during the financial year:

                Particulars                                                                               (H In Crore).



                a. Total amount to be spent                                                                    118.80
                b. Amount spent                                                                                119.44
                c. Amount unspent, if any (a-b)                                                                    Nil
                d. Manner in which the amount spent/committed during the financial year                  As provided
                                                                                                         in enclosed
                                                                                                            Table 1.*


                *In addition to what is stated above, Bajaj Group implements many CSR initiatives of substantial
                value through its Group Charitable Trusts operating at various locations in the country.

                Major initiatives that continued and/or that were taken up anew by the Bajaj Group through such
                entities during the year under review are given in another detailed report, which is hosted on
                the Company’s website www.bajajauto.com and a physical/soft copy of this report will be made
                available to any shareholder on request.

            6. In case the Company fails to spend the 2% of the average net profit (INR) of the last three
               financial years, the reasons for not spending the amount shall be stated in the Board Report.

                Not Applicable

            7. Responsibility statement of the CSR Committee that the implementation and monitoring of CSR
               Policy is in compliance with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.

                The CSR Committee confirms that the implementation and monitoring of CSR Policy is in
                compliance with CSR objectives and Policy of the Company.




            Rahul Bajaj							Rajiv Bajaj
            Chairman of CSR Committee				 Managing Director and CEO

            Pune: 20 May 2020




88    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Directors’ Report




            Table 1: Report on manner of expenditure for CSR during the financial year ended
            31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)

                                                                                             Location of                     Amount
                                                                                             the project/                spent direct/    Cumulative
                                                                                             programme          Amount/    overheads     expenditure
            Sr.     Name/details of the       CSR project/activity     Sector in which the   (Local area or       outlay   during the       up to 31
            No.     implementing agency       identified               project is covered    state/district)   approved          year    March 2020



            1       JBGVS (Integrated Rural   To implement             Rural                 5 Districts of       38.10          16.00         21.00
                    and Urban Development     integrated rural and     Development           Maharashtra,
                    Project)                  urban development        (x)                   Rajasthan
                                              projects in select                             and
                                              villages and urban                             Uttarakhand
                                              areas in its 5
                                              core districts for
                                              particular projects like
                                              sanitation, e-learning
                                              etc. Apart from this,
                                              urban development
                                              activities are being
                                              carried out through
                                              Samaj Seva Kendras.
            2       Action for Agriculture    Bajaj Water              Environment           Aurangabad           43.31           7.74         15.53
                    Renewal in Maharashtra    Conservation Project     Sustainability
                                                                       (iv)
            3       Action for Food           Bajaj Water              Environment           Aurangabad           33.83           6.47         14.35
                    Production (AFPRO)        Conservation Project     Sustainability
                                                                       (iv)
            4       Development Support       Bajaj Water              Environment           Aurangabad           15.33           6.44         10.50
                    Centre (DSC)              Conservation Project     Sustainability
                                                                       (iv)
            5       Foundation for            To restore water         Environment           Nine districts       27.00           5.40         14.85
                    Ecological Security       resources in             Sustainability        of Rajasthan,
                                              water-scarce and         (iv)                  Maharashtra,
                                              ecologically degraded                          Karnataka,
                                              dryland regions                                and Andhra
                                                                                             Pradesh
            6       Disaster Relief Fund      Odisha cyclone           Disaster Relief       Odisha                5.00           5.00          5.00
                    for Odisha                relief fund              (xii)
            7       Indian Institute of       Corpus for endowing      Education (ii)        Pune,                 4.00           4.00          4.00
                    Science Education and     three professorships                           Maharashtra
                    Research (IISER)          and one distinguished
                                              visiting professorship
                                              for perpetuity
            8       Shramjivi Janata          To render assistance     Environment           Man                  11.85           3.65          7.36
                    Sahayak Mandal (SISM)     for undertaking          sustainability        (Dahiwadi)
                                              watershed                (iv)                  Tehsil
                                              development works
                                              in severely drought
                                              affected 4 villages of
                                              Dahiwadi Taluka of
                                              Satara District
            9       Marathwada Gramin         Bajaj Water              Environment           Vaijapur,            13.62           3.57          3.57
                    Vikas Sanstha             Conservation Project     (iv)-                 Maharashtra
                                              in Vaijapur Block        conservation
                                                                       of natural
                                                                       resources




90    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                     Directors’ Report




Table 1: Report on manner of expenditure for CSR during the financial year ended
31 March 2020 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                                  Location of                      Amount
                                                                                  the project/                 spent direct/    Cumulative
                                                                                  programme           Amount/    overheads     expenditure
Sr.   Name/details of the          CSR project/activity     Sector in which the   (Local area or        outlay   during the       up to 31
No.   implementing agency          identified               project is covered    state/district)    approved          year    March 2020



10    Paani Foundation             The Satyamev Jayate Environment                40 Talukas,           10.00           3.30          3.30
                                   Water Cup – Phase 2     Sustainability         21 Districts,
                                   To highlight additional (iv)                   Maharashtra
                                   activities which are
                                   required to fight
                                   drought.
11    Aditya Jyot Foundation       Equipment for            Healthcare (i)        Mumbai,                3.10           3.10          3.10
      for Twinkling Little Eyes    charitable eye                                 Maharashtra
                                   operation theatre
12    United Way of Delhi          Project Neev-            Education (ii)        Udham                 10.26           3.00          3.00
                                   Well being and                                 Singh Nagar,
                                   development of 0-6                             Uttarakhand
                                   year old.
13    Chief Minister’s Relief      Flood Relief for         Disaster Relief       Mumbai,                2.50           2.50          2.50
      Fund-Maharashtra             Maharashtra              (xii)                 Maharashtra
14    IIT Bombay                   Rahul Bajaj           Technology               Mumbai,               12.50           2.50          2.50
                                   Technology Innovation Incubators (ix)          Maharashtra
                                   Centre (RBTIC)
15    JBGVS (Govt Medical          Construction of          Education (ii)        Aurangabad,            8.06           2.00          2.00
      College Aurangabad)          new lecture theatre                            Maharashtra
                                   complex at Govt.
                                   Medical college and
                                   hospital, Aurangabad
16    Others through               For different            Environmental         For different        192.21          41.56        132.32
      implementing agencies,       projects, such as        sustainability        locations in
      such as JBGVS, BAIF          water conservation       (iv),                 Maharashtra,
      Institute for Sustainable    project, promotion of    Livelihood            Rajasthan,
      Livelihood Development,      livelihood, fostering    enhancement           Uttarakhand
      Bharatiya Yuva Shakti        entrepreneurship,        (ii),                 and PAN-
      Trust, Teach-to-lead         sanitation, education    Employment            India
      (Teach for India),           for slum and deprived    enhancing
      Sri Aurobindo                children, tree           vocation skills
      Society etc.                 plantation, welfare of   and livelihood
                                   armed forces             enhancements
                                   veterans etc.            projects (ii),
                                   (expenditure on the      Education (ii),
                                   above projects is        Health (i),
                                   below H 2 crore per      welfare of
                                   project)                 armed forces
                                                            veterans
                                                            (vi), Rural
                                                            Development
                                                            Projects (x) etc.
                                                                                                    Total (A)      116.23
                                Overhead expenses (restricted to 5% of total CSR expenditure) (B)                     3.21
                                                                                      Grand Total (A)+(B)          119.44




                                                                                                      13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20              l    91
Directors’ Report




            Extract of Annual Return (Form MGT-9)
            As on the financial year ended on 31 March 2020
            [Pursuant to section 92 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management
            and Administration) Rules, 2014]

            I. Registration and other details:
            CIN                                                    L65993PN2007PLC130076
            Registration Date                                      30 April 2007
            Name of the Company                                    Bajaj Auto Limited
            Category/Sub-category of the Company                   Public Company/Limited by shares
            Address of the Registered office & contact details     Mumbai Pune Road,
                                                                   Akurdi, Pune – 411 035
                                                                   E-mail: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                   Tel. No: (020) 27472851
            Whether listed company                                 Yes (BSE and NSE)
            Name, Address & contact details of the Registrar and   KFin Technologies Private Limited
            Transfer Agent, if any.                                (erstwhile Karvy Fintech Pvt. Ltd.)
                                                                   Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli
                                                                   Financial District, Nanakramguda,
                                                                   Hyderabad-500 032

                                                                   Contact Persons
                                                                   M. S. Madhusudhan
                                                                   Mohd. Mohsinuddin
                                                                   Tel No. : (040) 6716 2222/1562
                                                                   Fax No. : (040) 2300 1153
                                                                   Toll Free No: 1800 345 4001
                                                                   E-mail: mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com
                                                                   Website: www.kfintech.com



            II. Principal business activities of the Company

            All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated

                    Name and description of                        NIC Code of the            % to total turnover
            Sr. No. main products/services                         product/service            of the Company



               1     Manufacture of motorcycles, three-wheelers
                     (including parts thereof)                                3091                         95



            III. Particulars of holding, subsidiary and associate companies
                                                                                              % of
                                                                          Holding/Subsidiary/ shares Applicable
            Sr. No. Name of the Company           CIN/GLN                 Associate           held   section



               1    PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia      Company incorporated
                                                  in Indonesia            Subsidiary               99.25 section 2 (87)
               2    Bajaj Auto International      Company incorporated
                    Holdings BV                   in Netherlands          Subsidiary                   100 section 2 (87)
               3    Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.    Company incorporated
                                                  in Thailand             Subsidiary                   100 section 2 (87)




92    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Directors’ Report




            IV. Shareholding pattern
                (equity share capital breakup as percentage of total equity)

            i) Category-wise shareholding:

                                               No. of shares held at the beginning                   No. of shares held at the end
                                                 of the year as on 1 April 2019                    of the year as on 31 March 2020             %
                                                                                                                                           change
                                                                                    % of                                             % of during
                                                                                    total                                            total    the
              Category of shareholders        Demat      Physical           Total shares          Demat     Physical         Total shares    year



            A. Promoters
              (1) Indian
            		a) Individual/HUF           12,558,990            –     12,558,990      4.34    12,505,990           –    12,505,990    4.32   (0.02)
            		 b) Central Govt                     –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		 c) State Govt(s)                    –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		 d) Bodies Corp.           135,546,042                 135,546,042     46.84   142,757,114           – 142,757,114     49.34    2.50
            		e) Banks/FI                          –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		 f) Any other                        –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
              Sub-total (A)(1)           148,105,032            –   148,105,032      51.18   155,263,104           – 155,263,104     53.66    2.48
              (2) Foreign
            		a) NRIs-Individual                   –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		b) Others-Individuals                –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		 c) Bodies Corporate                 –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		d) Banks/FI                          –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		 e) Any Other                        –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
              Sub-total (A)(2)                     –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –


            Total shareholding of
            Promoter (A)=(A)(1)+(A)(2)   148,105,032            –   148,105,032      51.18   155,263,104           – 155,263,104     53.66    2.48


            B. Public Shareholding
              (1) Institutions
            		a) Mutual Funds              6,281,716          850       6,282,566     2.17     8,816,772        850      8,817,622    3.05    0.88
            		b) Banks/FI                    320,090       19,890        339,980      0.12    16,541,548       5,490    16,547,038    5.72    5.60
            		c) Central Govt                      –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		d) State Govt(s)                     –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		e) Venture Capital
            			Funds                               –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		f) Insurance
            			Companies*                 14,686,261          600     14,686,861      5.08            –            –             –      –        –
            		g) FIIs/FPIs                45,252,114        2,300     45,254,414     15.64    40,321,273       2,300    40,323,573   13.94   (1.70)
            		h) Foreign Venture
            			 Capital Funds                      –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
            		i) Alternate
            			Investment Fund                37,698            –         37,698      0.01        82,540           –        82,540    0.03    0.02
            		j) Qualified
            			 Institutional Buyer                4            –               4     0.00     2,957,749           –     2,957,749    1.02    1.02
            		k) Others (specify)                  –            –               –       –             –            –             –      –        –
              Sub-total (B)(1)            66,577,883       23,640     66,601,523     23.02    68,719,882      8,640    68,728,522    23.75    0.73




94    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                 Directors’ Report




i) Category-wise shareholding: (Contd.)

                                   No. of shares held at the beginning                   No. of shares held at the end
                                     of the year as on 1 April 2019                    of the year as on 31 March 2020             %
                                                                                                                               change
                                                                        % of                                             % of during
                                                                        total                                            total    the
 Category of shareholders         Demat      Physical           Total shares          Demat     Physical         Total shares    year



  2 Non-Institutions
		 a) Bodies Corp.
			i) Indian                  20,836,158      835,780     21,671,938      7.49    12,322,953    835,730     13,158,683    4.55   (2.94)
			ii) Overseas                        –            –               –                                                                 –
		b) Individuals
			i) Individual
				 shareholders
				 holding
				 nominal
				 share capital
				 upto H 1 lakh            13,455,429      801,545     14,256,974      4.93    13,880,310    679,436     14,559,746    5.03    0.10
			ii) Individual
				 shareholders
				 holding
				 nominal
				 share capital
				 in excess of
				 H 1 lakh                 15,122,790 15,881,832       31,004,622     10.71    15,997,502 15,529,952     31,527,454   10.90    0.19
		 c) Others (specify)
			i) NBFC
				 Registered
				 with RBI                      1,551            –           1,551     0.00         1,476           –         1,476    0.00    0.00
			ii) Non Resident
				 Indians                   1,390,149       20,230       1,410,379     0.49     1,439,365      15,430     1,454,795    0.50    0.01
			iii) Overseas
				 Corporate
				 Bodies                            –          225            225      0.00            –         225           225     0.00    0.00
			iv) Foreign
				 Nationals                      175             –            175      0.00          357            –          357     0.00    0.00
			v) Clearing
				 Members                   1,671,351            –       1,671,351     0.58       265,855           –      265,855     0.09   (0.49)
			vi) Trusts                  4,540,217            –       4,540,217     1.57     4,201,239           –     4,201,239    1.45   (0.12)
			vii) Foreign
				 Bodies-D R                   24,600            –         24,600      0.01        24,600           –        24,600    0.01    0.00
			viii) IEPF                     78,433            –         78,433      0.03       180,964           –      180,964     0.06    0.04
  Sub-total (B)(2)           57,120,853 17,539,612        74,660,465     25.80    48,314,621 17,060,773    65,375,394    22.59   (3.21)
  Total Public
  Shareholding
  (B)=(B)(1)+(B)(2)         123,698,736 17,563,252      141,261,988      48.82   117,034,503 17,069,413 134,103,916      46.34   (2.48)


  Grand Total (A+B)         271,803,768 17,563,252      289,367,020 100.00       272,297,607 17,069,413 289,367,020 100.00            –
Note-* Shareholding of Insurance Companies is included in Financial Institutional Investors (FII) for the year ended 31 March 2020.




                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20              l    95
Directors’ Report




            ii) Shareholding of promoters and promoter group:

                                                       Shareholding at the beginning of the year                  Shareholding at the end of the year
                                                                 as on 1 April 2019                                     as on 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                                                              %
                                                                          % of total   % of shares                                 % of total   % of shares           change in
                                                                            shares        pledged/                                   shares        pledged/        shareholding
            Sr.                                                No. of        of the encumbered to                      No. of         of the encumbered to               during
            No. Shareholder's name                            shares      company      total shares                   shares       company      total shares           the year


            1     Late Anant Bajaj*                            41,464            0.01                    –            41,464              0.01                 –              –
            2     Deepa Bajaj                                  21,150            0.01                    –           332,150              0.11                 –           0.11
            3     Geetika Bajaj                                   600            0.00                    –                600             0.00                 –              –
            4     Kiran Bajaj                                118,050             0.04                    –           118,050              0.04                 –              –
            5     Kriti Bajaj                                398,820             0.14                    –           398,820              0.14                 –              –
            6     Kumud Bajaj                                595,118             0.21                    –           595,118              0.21                 –              –
            7     Madhur Bajaj                             1,674,532             0.58                    –         1,406,426              0.49                 –          (0.09)
            8     Minal Bajaj                              1,025,950             0.35                    –           972,950              0.34                 –          (0.02)
            9     Neelima Bajaj Swamy                        661,438             0.23                    –           661,438              0.23                 –              –
            10    Nimisha Jaipuria                           389,770             0.13                    –           657,876              0.23                 –           0.09
            11    Niraj Bajaj                                663,022             0.23                    –           663,022              0.23                 –              –
            12    Niravnayan Bajaj                           901,056             0.31                    –           901,056              0.31                 –              –
            13    Pooja Bajaj                                149,500             0.05                    –           149,500              0.05                 –              –
            14    Rahulkumar Bajaj                         2,780,570             0.96                    –         2,848,796              0.98                 –           0.02
            15    Rajivnayan Bajaj                           767,500             0.27                    –           342,900              0.12                 –          (0.15)
            16    Rishabnayan Bajaj                            10,500            0.00                    –              4,100             0.00                 –              –
            17    Sanjali Bajaj                                59,308            0.02                    –           116,566              0.04                 –           0.02
            18    Sanjivnayan Bajaj                          514,724             0.18                    –           571,982              0.20                 –           0.02
            19    Shefali Bajaj                                61,308            0.02                    –           118,566              0.04                 –           0.02
            20    Shekhar Bajaj                                 7,220            0.00                    –              7,220             0.00                 –              –
            21    Siddhantnayan Bajaj                          57,308            0.02                    –            57,308              0.02                 –              –
            22    Suman Jain                               1,047,008             0.36                    –         1,047,008              0.36                 –              –
            23    Sunaina Kejriwal                           613,074             0.21                    –           493,074              0.17                 –          (0.04)
            24    Bachhraj And
                  Company Pvt Ltd                          3,639,756             1.26                    –         3,639,756              1.26                 –              –
            25    Bachhraj Factories Pvt Ltd               1,961,174             0.68                    –         1,961,174              0.68                 –              –
            26    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance
                  Company Ltd.                               125,000             0.04                    –           125,000              0.04                 –              –
            27    Bajaj Finance Ltd.                              150            0.00                    –                150             0.00                 –              –
            28    Bajaj Holdings &
                  Investment Ltd                          96,727,050           33.43                     –        96,727,050            33.43                  –              –
            29    Bajaj Sevashram Pvt Ltd                  4,462,720             1.54                    –         4,462,720              1.54                 –              –
            30    Baroda Industries Pvt Ltd                1,670,802             0.58                    –         1,670,802              0.58                 –              –
            31    Hercules Hoists Limited                    182,590             0.06                    –           182,590              0.06                 –              –
            32    The Hindustan Housing
                  Company Ltd                                  20,800            0.01                    –            20,800              0.01                 –              –
            33    Jamnalal Sons Pvt Ltd                   25,844,400             8.93                    –        26,281,400              9.08                 –           0.15
            34    Kamalnayan Investment &
                  Trading Pvt Ltd                            132,200             0.05                    –           132,200              0.05                 –              –
            35    Maharashtra Scooters Ltd**                         –              –                    –         6,774,072              2.34                 –           2.34
            36    Madhur Securities Pvt Ltd                    79,400            0.03                    –            79,400              0.03                 –              –
            37    Niraj Holdings Pvt Ltd                       19,600            0.01                    –            19,600              0.01                 –              –
            38    Rahul Securities Pvt Ltd                   270,600             0.09                    –           270,600              0.09                 –              –
            39    Rupa Equities Pvt Ltd                      286,800             0.10                    –           286,800              0.10                 –              –
            40    Sanraj Nayan
                  Investments Pvt Ltd                          60,000            0.02                    –            60,000              0.02                 –              –
            41    Shekhar Holdings Pvt Ltd                     63,000            0.02                    –            63,000              0.02                 –              –
                  Total                                148,105,032             51.18                     –     155,263,104              53.66                  –           2.48

            Note: * Anant Bajaj, part of the promoter group expired on 10 August 2018. 41,464 shares (0.01%) held by him are in the process of transmission.
            ** Maharashtra Scooters Ltd. has been added in promoter group post its becoming subsidiary of Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. during the year.




96    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                              Directors’ Report




iii) Change in Promoters’ and promoter group shareholding

                                          Shareholding at the
                                         beginning of the year           Cumulative shareholding
                                          (As on 1 April 2019)              during the year
                                                        % of total                       % of total
                                            No. of   shares of the           No. of   shares of the
Sr. No. Particulars                        shares       Company             shares       Company



        At the beginning of the year
        (1 April 2019)                 148,105,032          51.18
        Date-wise Increase/decrease


  1     Rajivnayan Bajaj
        05/07/2019-Purchase                  6,400               0.00   148,111,432          51.18
        07/01/2020-Gift Given            (311,000)          (0.11)      147,800,432          51.08
        08/01/2020-Gift Given            (120,000)          (0.04)      147,680,432          51.04


  2     Rahulkumar Bajaj
        07/01/2020-Gift Given            (171,774)          (0.06)      147,508,658          50.98
        07/01/2020-Gift Received          120,000                0.04   147,628,658          51.02
        08/01/2020-Gift Received          120,000                0.04   147,748,658          51.06


  3     Sanjali Bajaj
        07/01/2020-Gift Received           57,258                0.02   147,805,916          51.08


  4     Shefali Bajaj
        07/01/2020-Gift Received           57,258                0.02   147,863,174          51.10


  5     Rishabnayan Bajaj
        27/06/2019-Sale                    (6,400)          (0.00)      147,856,774          51.10


  6     Madhur Bajaj
        28/01/2020-Gift Given            (268,106)          (0.09)      147,588,668          51.00


  7     Deepa Bajaj
        07/01/2020-Gift Received          311,000                0.11   147,899,668          51.11


  8     Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.
        24/09/2019-Market Purchase         53,000                0.02   147,952,668          51.13
        02/03/2020-Market Purchase        107,000                0.04   148,059,668          51.17
        11/03/2020-Market Purchase        235,000                0.08   148,294,668          51.25
        19/03/2020-Market Purchase         42,000                0.01   148,336,668          51.26


  9     Sunaina Kejriwal
        07/01/2020-Gift Given            (120,000)          (0.04)      148,216,668          51.22




                                                                        13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l    97
Directors’ Report




            iii) Change in Promoters’ and promoter group shareholding (Contd.)

                                                                         Shareholding at the
                                                                        beginning of the year               Cumulative shareholding
                                                                         (As on 1 April 2019)                  during the year
                                                                                          % of total                          % of total
                                                                           No. of      shares of the              No. of   shares of the
            Sr. No. Particulars                                           shares          Company                shares       Company



              10      Minal Bajaj
                      24/09/2019-Market Sale                             (53,000)               (0.02)    148,163,668             51.20


              11      Nimisha Jaipuria
                      28/01/2020-Gift Received                           268,106                  0.09    148,431,774             51.30


              12      Sanjivnayan Bajaj
                      (Siddhant Family Trust)
                      07/01/2020-Gift Received                             57,258                 0.02    148,489,032             51.32


              13      Maharashtra Scooters Ltd*                        6,774,072                  2.34    155,263,104             53.66


                       At the end of the year
                      (31 March 2020)                                                                     155,263,104             53.66
            Note: * Maharashtra Scooters Ltd. has been added in promoter group post its becoming subsidiary of
                    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. during the year.



            iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and 		
            holders of GDRs and ADRs)

                                                                    Shareholding at the              Cumulative shareholding during
                                                                   beginning of the year                        the year
                                                                                     % of total                               % of total
                                                                      No. of      shares of the                   No. of   shares of the
            Sr. No. Name of shareholders                             shares          Company                     shares       Company



               1      Life insurance corporation
                      of India
                      At the beginning of the year
                      1 April 2019                              13,429,329                   4.64
                      Date-wise Increase/decrease
                      05/04/2019-Purchase                           962,106                  0.33         14,391,435               4.97
                      12/04/2019-Purchase                           157,660                  0.05         14,549,095               5.03
                      19/04/2019-Purchase                            81,131                  0.03         14,630,226               5.06
                      26/04/2019-Purchase                           241,006                  0.08         14,871,232               5.14
                      03/05/2019-Purchase                           178,746                  0.06         15,049,978               5.20
                      10/05/2019-Purchase                           709,140                  0.25         15,759,118               5.45
                      17/05/2019-Purchase                           443,385                  0.15         16,202,503               5.60
                      24/05/2019-Purchase                           594,365                  0.21         16,796,868               5.80
                      31/05/2019-Purchase                           213,104                  0.07         17,009,972               5.88
                      18/10/2019-Purchase                                300                 0.00         17,010,272               5.88




98    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                Directors’ Report




iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                        Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                       beginning of the year                     the year
                                                      % of total                           % of total
                                         No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
Sr. No. Name of shareholders            shares        Company                shares        Company



       18/10/2019-Sale                    (300)            (0.00)         17,009,972            5.88
       08/11/2019-Purchase              58,639                 0.02       17,068,611            5.90
       15/11/2019-Purchase              95,233                 0.03       17,163,844            5.93
       22/11/2019-Purchase             206,030                 0.07       17,369,874            6.00
       29/11/2019-Purchase             116,966                 0.04       17,486,840            6.04
       06/12/2019-Purchase             102,934                 0.04       17,589,774            6.08
       06/12/2019-Sale                  (5,000)            (0.00)         17,584,774            6.08
       13/12/2019-Purchase              63,462                 0.02       17,648,236            6.10
       20/12/2019-Purchase              96,218                 0.03       17,744,454            6.13
       27/12/2019-Purchase             131,286                 0.05       17,875,740            6.18
       31/12/2019-Purchase              11,202                 0.00       17,886,942            6.18
       31/12/2019-Sale                 (75,778)            (0.03)         17,811,164            6.16
       03/01/2020-Sale                (211,050)            (0.07)         17,600,114            6.08
       10/01/2020-Sale                (138,045)            (0.05)         17,462,069            6.03
       17/01/2020-Sale                (620,008)            (0.21)         16,842,061            5.82
       24/01/2020-Sale                (397,134)            (0.14)         16,444,927            5.68
       31/01/2020-Sale                (278,981)            (0.10)         16,165,946            5.59
       07/02/2020-Sale                (351,980)            (0.12)         15,813,966            5.47
       14/02/2020-Sale                (115,272)            (0.04)         15,698,694            5.43
       21/02/2020-Purchase              22,000                 0.01       15,720,694            5.43
       21/02/2020-Sale                 (34,324)            (0.01)         15,686,370            5.42
       06/03/2020-Purchase               5,000                 0.00       15,691,370            5.42
       06/03/2020-Sale                  (5,000)            (0.00)         15,686,370            5.42
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2020                                                      15,730,820            5.44


  2    Jaya Hind Industries Ltd.
       At the beginning of the year
       1 April 2019                   9,698,160                3.35
       Date-wise Increase/decrease
       09/08/2019-Purchase                 200                 0.00        9,698,360            3.35
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2020                                                       9,698,360            3.35


  3    Government Pension
       Fund Global
       At the beginning of the year
       1 April 2019                   4,133,803                1.43
       Date-wise Increase/decrease
       03/05/2019-Sale                (342,046)            (0.12)          3,791,757            1.31




                                                                         13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    99
Directors’ Report




            iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
            holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                                     Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                    beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                   % of total                           % of total
                                                      No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
            Sr. No. Name of shareholders             shares        Company                shares        Company



                    10/05/2019-Sale                (543,572)            (0.19)          3,248,185            1.12
                    17/05/2019-Sale                (104,025)            (0.04)          3,144,160            1.09
                    07/06/2019-Purchase               2,381                 0.00        3,146,541            1.09
                    14/06/2019-Purchase              11,504                 0.00        3,158,045            1.09
                    21/06/2019-Purchase               9,933                 0.00        3,167,978            1.09
                    04/10/2019-Sale                 (47,728)            (0.02)          3,120,250            1.08
                    01/11/2019-Sale                 (16,838)            (0.01)          3,103,412            1.07
                    08/11/2019-Sale                 (21,776)            (0.01)          3,081,636            1.06
                    29/11/2019-Sale                 (56,113)            (0.02)          3,025,523            1.05
                    06/12/2019-Sale                 (30,366)            (0.01)          2,995,157            1.04
                    13/12/2019-Sale                 (25,110)            (0.01)          2,970,047            1.03
                    20/12/2019-Sale                 (40,196)            (0.01)          2,929,851            1.01
                    27/12/2019-Sale                  (9,561)            (0.00)          2,920,290            1.01
                    13/03/2020-Sale                (111,959)            (0.04)          2,808,331            0.97
                    20/03/2020-Sale                (104,707)            (0.04)          2,703,624            0.93
                    27/03/2020-Sale                 (31,249)            (0.01)          2,672,375            0.92
                    At the end of the year
                    31 March 2020                                                       2,774,160            0.96


               4    Niraj Bajaj
                    (as trustee of Yamuna Trust)
                    At the beginning and at the
                    end of the year-No change
                    during the year ended
                    31 March 2020                  3,659,916                1.26        3,659,916            1.26


               5    SBI-ETF SENSEX
                    At the beginning of the year
                    1 April 2019                   2,184,254                0.75
                    Date-wise Increase/Decrease
                    05/04/2019-Purchase             504,932                 0.17        2,689,186            0.93
                    12/04/2019-Purchase              15,467                 0.01        2,704,653            0.93
                    12/04/2019-Sale                 (15,323)            (0.01)          2,689,330            0.93
                    19/04/2019-Purchase               4,888                 0.00        2,694,218            0.93
                    19/04/2019-Sale                 (61,519)            (0.02)          2,632,699            0.91
                    26/04/2019-Purchase                 553                 0.00        2,633,252            0.91
                    26/04/2019-Sale                (197,169)            (0.07)          2,436,083            0.84
                    03/05/2019-Purchase             278,381                 0.10        2,714,464            0.94
                    10/05/2019-Purchase              15,535                 0.01        2,729,999            0.94
                    10/05/2019-Sale                     (18)            (0.00)          2,729,981            0.94




100    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Directors’ Report




            iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
            holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                                   Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                  beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                 % of total                           % of total
                                                    No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
            Sr. No. Name of shareholders           shares        Company                shares        Company



                    17/05/2019-Purchase             7,180                 0.00        2,737,161            0.95
                    17/05/2019-Sale               (49,804)            (0.02)          2,687,357            0.93
                    24/05/2019-Purchase             2,234                 0.00        2,689,591            0.93
                    24/05/2019-Sale                (3,599)            (0.00)          2,685,992            0.93
                    31/05/2019-Purchase             2,863                 0.00        2,688,855            0.93
                    31/05/2019-Sale               (73,863)            (0.03)          2,614,992            0.90
                    07/06/2019-Purchase           265,586                 0.09        2,880,578            1.00
                    07/06/2019-Sale                (5,249)            (0.00)          2,875,329            0.99
                    14/06/2019-Purchase            10,067                 0.00        2,885,396            1.00
                    21/06/2019-Purchase            11,310                 0.00        2,896,706            1.00
                    28/06/2019-Purchase             3,529                 0.00        2,900,235            1.00
                    28/06/2019-Sale               (90,965)            (0.03)          2,809,270            0.97
                    05/07/2019-Purchase           178,956                 0.06        2,988,226            1.03
                    12/07/2019-Purchase            32,006                 0.01        3,020,232            1.04
                    19/07/2019-Purchase            25,731                 0.01        3,045,963            1.05
                    26/07/2019-Purchase            13,441                 0.00        3,059,404            1.06
                    02/08/2019-Purchase            43,306                 0.01        3,102,710            1.07
                    30/09/2019-Purchase             1,840                 0.00        3,104,550            1.07
                    30/09/2019-Sale                (1,654)            (0.00)          3,102,896            1.07
                    04/10/2019-Purchase             6,612                 0.00        3,109,508            1.07
                    04/10/2019-Sale                  (108)            (0.00)          3,109,400            1.07
                    11/10/2019-Purchase             3,322                 0.00        3,112,722            1.08
                    11/10/2019-Sale                    (2)            (0.00)          3,112,720            1.08
                    18/10/2019-Purchase            17,429                 0.01        3,130,149            1.08
                    25/10/2019-Purchase            12,727                 0.00        3,142,876            1.09
                    01/11/2019-Purchase            25,819                 0.01        3,168,695            1.10
                    08/11/2019-Purchase            26,065                 0.01        3,194,760            1.10
                    15/11/2019-Purchase            22,436                 0.01        3,217,196            1.11
                    15/11/2019-Sale                (1,336)            (0.00)          3,215,860            1.11
                    22/11/2019-Purchase            18,428                 0.01        3,234,288            1.12
                    22/11/2019-Sale                   (13)            (0.00)          3,234,275            1.12
                    29/11/2019-Purchase            13,494                 0.00        3,247,769            1.12
                    06/12/2019-Purchase            14,644                 0.01        3,262,413            1.13
                    06/12/2019-Sale                   (29)            (0.00)          3,262,384            1.13
                    13/12/2019-Purchase            15,199                 0.01        3,277,583            1.13
                    20/12/2019-Purchase            10,973                 0.00        3,288,556            1.14
                    20/12/2019-Sale                  (249)            (0.00)          3,288,307            1.14
                    27/12/2019-Purchase               618                 0.00        3,288,925            1.14




102    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                   Directors’ Report




iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                           Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                          beginning of the year                     the year
                                                         % of total                           % of total
                                            No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
Sr. No. Name of shareholders               shares        Company                shares        Company



       27/12/2019-Sale                    (13,000)            (0.00)          3,275,925            1.13
       31/12/2019-Purchase                  3,644                 0.00        3,279,569            1.13
       03/01/2020-Purchase                  7,010                 0.00        3,286,579            1.14
       10/01/2020-Purchase                  8,508                 0.00        3,295,087            1.14
       17/01/2020-Purchase                  5,933                 0.00        3,301,020            1.14
       17/01/2020-Sale                       (411)            (0.00)          3,300,609            1.14
       24/01/2020-Purchase                  8,076                 0.00        3,308,685            1.14
       31/01/2020-Purchase                 11,854                 0.00        3,320,539            1.15
       31/01/2020-Sale                       (638)            (0.00)          3,319,901            1.15
       07/02/2020-Purchase                 11,234                 0.00        3,331,135            1.15
       07/02/2020-Sale                        (18)            (0.00)          3,331,117            1.15
       14/02/2020-Purchase                  7,290                 0.00        3,338,407            1.15
       14/02/2020-Sale                        (16)            (0.00)          3,338,391            1.15
       21/02/2020-Purchase                  6,116                 0.00        3,344,507            1.16
       21/02/2020-Sale                       (373)            (0.00)          3,344,134            1.16
       28/02/2020-Purchase                 39,598                 0.01        3,383,732            1.17
       06/03/2020-Purchase                 54,581                 0.02        3,438,313            1.19
       13/03/2020-Purchase                 33,487                 0.01        3,471,800            1.20
       20/03/2020-Purchase                796,671                 0.28        4,268,471            1.48
       20/03/2020-Sale                   (774,620)            (0.27)          3,493,851            1.21
       27/03/2020-Purchase                144,124                 0.05        3,637,975            1.26
       31/03/2020-Purchase                 55,074                 0.02        3,693,049            1.28
       At the end of the year
       31 March 2020                                                          3,723,579            1.29


  6    Niraj Bajaj
       (as trustee of Narmada Trust)
       At the beginning and at the end
       of the year-No change during
       the year ended 31 March 2020      2,184,150                0.75        2,184,150            0.75


  7    Lazard Emerging Markets
       Equity Portfolio
       At the beginning of the year
       1 April 2019                      2,109,758                0.73
       Date-wise Increase/decrease
       05/04/2019-Sale                    (60,197)            (0.02)          2,049,561            0.71
       26/04/2019-Sale                    (50,100)            (0.02)          1,999,461            0.69
       24/05/2019-Sale                    (34,581)            (0.01)          1,964,880            0.68
       07/06/2019-Sale                    (22,674)            (0.01)          1,942,206            0.67




                                                                           13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    103
Directors’ Report




            iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
            holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                                      Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                     beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                    % of total                           % of total
                                                       No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
            Sr. No. Name of shareholders              shares        Company                shares        Company



                    14/06/2019-Sale                  (61,774)            (0.02)          1,880,432            0.65
                    21/06/2019-Sale                 (139,569)            (0.05)          1,740,863            0.60
                    29/06/2019-Purchase             1,740,863                0.60        3,481,726            1.20
                    29/06/2019-Sale                (1,740,863)           (0.60)          1,740,863            0.60
                    26/07/2019-Sale                  (39,455)            (0.01)          1,701,408            0.59
                    11/10/2019-Sale                 (109,402)            (0.04)          1,592,006            0.55
                    22/11/2019-Sale                  (37,567)            (0.01)          1,554,439            0.54
                    29/11/2019-Sale                  (49,021)            (0.02)          1,505,418            0.52
                    06/12/2019-Sale                  (33,361)            (0.01)          1,472,057            0.51
                    17/01/2020-Sale                  (30,724)            (0.01)          1,441,333            0.50
                    07/02/2020-Sale                  (33,919)            (0.01)          1,407,414            0.49
                    31/03/2020-Sale                  (75,521)            (0.03)          1,331,893            0.46
                    At the end of the year
                    31 March 2020                                                        1,365,904            0.47


               8    Amansa Holdings Pvt. Ltd.
                    At the beginning of the year
                    1 April 2019                    1,947,712                0.67
                    Date-wise Increase/Decrease
                    20/03/2020-Purchase                 7,886                0.00        1,955,598            0.68
                    27/03/2020-Purchase                70,814                0.02        2,026,412            0.70
                    At the end of the year
                    31 March 2020                                                        2,026,412            0.70


               9    Tata Mutual Fund-
                    Tata Equity P/E Fund
                    At the beginning of the year
                    1 April 2019                    1,838,013                0.64
                    Date-wise Increase/Decrease
                    05/04/2019-Purchase                    43                0.00        1,838,056            0.64
                    12/04/2019-Sale                        (6)           (0.00)          1,838,050            0.64
                    19/04/2019-Purchase                    34                0.00        1,838,084            0.64
                    26/04/2019-Purchase                   107                0.00        1,838,191            0.64
                    03/05/2019-Purchase                     3                0.00        1,838,194            0.64
                    10/05/2019-Purchase                     3                0.00        1,838,197            0.64
                    10/05/2019-Sale                 (281,322)            (0.10)          1,556,875            0.54
                    17/05/2019-Purchase                    61                0.00        1,556,936            0.54
                    17/05/2019-Sale                 (122,200)            (0.04)          1,434,736            0.50
                    24/05/2019-Purchase                    24                0.00        1,434,760            0.50
                    24/05/2019-Sale                        (3)           (0.00)          1,434,757            0.50




104    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                               Directors’ Report




iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                       Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                      beginning of the year                     the year
                                                     % of total                           % of total
                                        No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
Sr. No. Name of shareholders           shares        Company                shares        Company



       31/05/2019-Purchase                646                 0.00        1,435,403            0.50
       31/05/2019-Sale               (101,184)            (0.03)          1,334,219            0.46
       07/06/2019-Purchase                 11                 0.00        1,334,230            0.46
       07/06/2019-Sale               (110,000)            (0.04)          1,224,230            0.42
       14/06/2019-Purchase                   7                0.00        1,224,237            0.42
       21/06/2019-Purchase                122                 0.00        1,224,359            0.42
       21/06/2019-Sale                 (5,000)            (0.00)          1,219,359            0.42
       28/06/2019-Purchase                 15                 0.00        1,219,374            0.42
       28/06/2019-Sale                 (5,810)            (0.00)          1,213,564            0.42
       05/07/2019-Purchase                   1                0.00        1,213,565            0.42
       05/07/2019-Sale                 (5,007)            (0.00)          1,208,558            0.42
       12/07/2019-Purchase                 12                 0.00        1,208,570            0.42
       19/07/2019-Purchase              3,024                 0.00        1,211,594            0.42
       19/07/2019-Sale                    (11)            (0.00)          1,211,583            0.42
       26/07/2019-Purchase                268                 0.00        1,211,851            0.42
       02/08/2019-Purchase                101                 0.00        1,211,952            0.42
       30/09/2019-Purchase                 17                 0.00        1,211,969            0.42
       30/09/2019-Sale                     (7)            (0.00)          1,211,962            0.42
       18/10/2019-Purchase            157,007                 0.05        1,368,969            0.47
       18/10/2019-Sale                    (11)            (0.00)          1,368,958            0.47
       25/10/2019-Purchase             75,000                 0.03        1,443,958            0.50
       25/10/2019-Sale                    (28)            (0.00)          1,443,930            0.50
       01/11/2019-Sale                   (210)            (0.00)          1,443,720            0.50
       08/11/2019-Sale                   (136)            (0.00)          1,443,584            0.50
       15/11/2019-Purchase                 17                 0.00        1,443,601            0.50
       29/11/2019-Purchase             50,000                 0.02        1,493,601            0.52
       29/11/2019-Sale                (30,000)            (0.01)          1,463,601            0.51
       06/12/2019-Purchase                   7                0.00        1,463,608            0.51
       06/12/2019-Sale                (25,006)            (0.01)          1,438,602            0.50
       13/12/2019-Purchase                102                 0.00        1,438,704            0.50
       20/12/2019-Purchase                   8                0.00        1,438,712            0.50
       20/12/2019-Sale                (25,074)            (0.01)          1,413,638            0.49
       03/01/2020-Purchase                 17                 0.00        1,413,655            0.49
       10/01/2020-Purchase                 10                 0.00        1,413,665            0.49
       10/01/2020-Sale                 (4,000)            (0.00)          1,409,665            0.49
       17/01/2020-Purchase             37,521                 0.01        1,447,186            0.50
       24/01/2020-Purchase             14,021                 0.00        1,461,207            0.50
       31/01/2020-Purchase                260                 0.00        1,461,467            0.51
       07/02/2020-Purchase              1,755                 0.00        1,463,222            0.51



                                                                       13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    105
Directors’ Report




            iv) Shareholding pattern of top ten shareholders (other than directors, promoters and
            holders of GDRs and ADRs) (Contd.)

                                                     Shareholding at the           Cumulative shareholding during
                                                    beginning of the year                     the year
                                                                   % of total                           % of total
                                                      No. of    shares of the              No. of    shares of the
            Sr. No. Name of shareholders             shares        Company                shares        Company



                    07/02/2020-Sale                 (29,000)            (0.01)          1,434,222            0.50
                    14/02/2020-Purchase                  14                 0.00        1,434,236            0.50
                    14/02/2020-Sale                    (158)            (0.00)          1,434,078            0.50
                    21/02/2020-Sale                     (29)            (0.00)          1,434,049            0.50
                    28/02/2020-Purchase                    9                0.00        1,434,058            0.50
                    06/03/2020-Purchase                 106                 0.00        1,434,164            0.50
                    06/03/2020-Sale                 (19,750)            (0.01)          1,414,414            0.49
                    13/03/2020-Purchase               1,800                 0.00        1,416,214            0.49
                    20/03/2020-Purchase              47,321                 0.02        1,463,535            0.51
                    20/03/2020-Sale                (185,000)            (0.06)          1,278,535            0.44
                    27/03/2020-Purchase               2,015                 0.00        1,280,550            0.44
                    31/03/2020-Purchase                 427                 0.00        1,280,977            0.44
                    At the end of the year
                    31 March 2020                                                       1,457,351            0.50


              10    Abhay Firodia
                    At the beginning of the year
                    1 April 2019                   1,733,459                0.60
                    Date-wise Increase/Decrease
                    03/01/2020-Purchase              77,154                 0.03        1,810,613            0.63
                    03/01/2020-Sale                 (77,154)            (0.03)          1,733,459            0.60
                    17/01/2020-Purchase             150,000                 0.05        1,883,459            0.65
                    17/01/2020-Sale                (150,000)            (0.05)          1,733,459            0.60
                    At the end of the year
                    31 March 2020                                                       1,733,459            0.60




106    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                  Directors’ Report




v) Shareholding of directors and key managerial personnel:

                                                    Shareholding at the       Cumulative shareholding
                                                   beginning of the year         during the year
                                                      No. of     % of total        No. of    % of total
Sr. No Particulars                                   shares        shares         shares       shares



  1    Rahul Bajaj
       At the beginning of the year 01/04/2019     2,780,570           0.96
       07/01/2020-Gift Given                       (171,774)         (0.06)
       07/01/2020-Gift Received                      120,000           0.04
       08/01/2020-Gift Received                      120,000           0.04
       At the end of the year 31/03/2020           2,848,796           0.98     2,848,796         0.98


  2    Madhur Bajaj
       At the beginning of the year 01/04/2019     1,674,532           0.58
       28/01/2020-Gift Given                       (268,106)           0.09
       At the end of the year 31/03/2020           1,406,426           0.49     1,406,426         0.49


  3    Rajiv Bajaj
       At the beginning of the year 01/04/2019       767,500           0.27
       05/07/2019-Purchase                             6,400           0.00
       07/01/2020-Gift Given                       (311,000)         (0.11)
       08/01/2020-Gift Given                       (120,000)         (0.04)
       At the end of the year 31/03/2020             342,900           0.12      342,900          0.12


  4    Sanjiv Bajaj
       At the beginning of the year 01/04/2019       514,724           0.18
       07/01/2020-Gift Received
       Sanjivnayan Bajaj
       (Siddhant Family Trust)                        57,258           0.02
       At the end of the year 31/03/2020             571,982           0.20      571,982          0.20


  5    Shekhar Bajaj
       At the beginning of the year & at the end
       of the year-No change during the year
       ended 31/03/2020                                7,220           0.00         7,220         0.00


  6    Niraj Bajaj
       At the beginning of the year & at the end
       of the year-No change during the year
       ended 31/03/2020                              663,022           0.23      663,022          0.23


  7    Pradeep Shrivastava
       At the beginning of the year & at the end
       of the year-No change during the year
       ended 31/03/2020                                   75           0.00           75          0.00




                                                                           13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l    107
Directors’ Report




            v) Shareholding of directors and key managerial personnel: (Contd.)

                                                                                Shareholding at the              Cumulative shareholding
                                                                               beginning of the year                during the year
                                                                                   No. of        % of total              No. of         % of total
            Sr. No Particulars                                                    shares           shares               shares            shares



               8         Dr. Naushad Forbes
                         At the beginning of the year & at the end
                         of the year-No change during the year
                         ended 31/03/2020                                           3,500               0.00              3,500              0.00


               9         Pradip Shah
                         At the beginning of the year & at the end
                         of the year-No change during the year
                         ended 31/03/2020                                           4,000               0.00              4,000              0.00

            Note: (1) Shareholding of all the other Directors-NIL.
                    (2) Dr. J Sridhar (Company Secretary) does not hold any shares in the company in his name as a sole/first holder.
                    (3) Soumen Ray (Chief Financial Officer) does not hold any shares in the company in his name as a sole/first holder.


            V. Indebtedness

            Indebtedness of the Company including outstanding/accrued but not due for payment

                                                                                                                                              (In H)

                                                              Secured
                                                                 loans
            Sr.                                              excluding                                                                    Total
            No.       Particulars                             deposits           Unsecured loans                Deposits          indebtedness



              A      Indebtedness at the
                     beginning of the
                     financial year
                     i      Principal Amount                            –            1,245,223,484                        –       1,245,223,484
                     ii     Interest due but not paid                   –                           –                     –                       –
                     iii Interest accrued
                         but not due                                    –                           –                     –                       –
                     Total (i+ii+iii)                                   –           1,245,223,484                        –        1,245,223,484
              B      Change in Indebtedness
                     during the financial year
                     *      Addition                                    –               10,640,741                        –             10,640,741
                     *      Reduction                                   –                           –                     –                       –
                     Net Change                                         –               10,640,741                       –              10,640,741
              C      Indebtedness at the
                     end of the financial year
                     31 March 2020
                     i      Principal Amount                            –            1,255,864,225                        –       1,255,864,225
                     ii     Interest due but not paid                   –                           –                     –                       –
                     iii Interest accrued
                         but not due                                    –                           –                     –                       –
                     Total (i+ii+iii)                                   –           1,255,864,225                        –        1,255,864,225




108    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                Directors’ Report




VI. Remuneration of the directors and key managerial personnel

A. Remuneration to Managing Director (MD), Whole-time Directors (WTD) and/or manager
                                                                                                                                (In H)
                                                                                              Pradeep         Rakesh
                                                        Rajiv Bajaj      Rahul Bajaj       Shrivastava        Sharma
Sr. No. Particulars of remuneration                           (MD)       (Chairman)               (ED)           (ED)     Total amount



  1      Gross Salary
         a. Salary as per provisions contained
            in section 17(1) of the
            Income Tax Act, 1961                        91,048,900       23,437,500         71,692,303      67,898,761     254,077,464
         b. Value of perquisites
            under section 17(2) of
            Income Tax Act, 1961                        40,189,229       20,369,559          2,858,271       2,386,006      65,803,065
         c. Profits in lieu of salary
            under section 17(3) of
            Income Tax Act, 1961                                 –                –                 –               –                 –
  2      Stock Option                                            –                –                 –               –                 –
  3      Sweat Equity                                            –                –                 –               –                 –
  4      Commission
        - as % of profit                                         –                –                 –               –                 –
        - others                                       250,210,800       67,500,000                 –               –      317,710,800
  5      Others, please specify
         - Contribution to PF etc.                      17,187,744        4,764,708          4,046,717       3,266,947      29,266,116
        Total (A)                                      398,636,673      116,071,767        78,597,291       73,551,714    666,857,445
        Ceiling as per the Act                                                                                           6,647,000,000
Notes: Salary and perquisites include all elements of remuneration i.e. salary, allowances and benefits. No bonus, pension and
performance linked incentive is paid to any of the directors, except Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, Executive Directors.
The Company has not issued any stock option to any of the directors except to Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma,
the non-promoter Executive Directors. The term of Managing Director/Whole-time Directors does not exceed five years.
Appointment of Managing Director/Whole-time Director is governed by a service contract for a period of five years and notice period
is of ninety days and is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.



B. Remuneration to other directors
                                                                                                                                (In H)

                                                                                                         Others,
Sr.                                              Fee for attending Board/                                 please
No.      Name                                        Committee meetings           Commission             Specify               Total



  1     Independent Directors
        1. D J Balaji Rao                                         1,500,000             3,750,000              –          5,250,000
        2. Nanoo Pamnani*                                         1,000,000             5,500,000              –          6,500,000
        3. Dr. Gita Piramal                                       1,600,000             4,000,000              –          5,600,000
        4. Dr. Naushad Forbes                                     1,300,000             3,250,000              –          4,550,000
        5. Dr. Omkar Goswami                                          800,000           2,000,000              –          2,800,000
        6. Anami N. Roy                                               700,000           1,750,000              –          2,450,000
        7. Ms. Lila Poonawalla                                        700,000           1,750,000              –          2,450,000
        8. Pradip Shah                                                700,000           1,750,000              –          2,450,000
        Total (B)(1)                                             8,300,000             23,750,000              –         32,050,000




                                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                l   109
Directors’ Report




            B. Remuneration to other directors (Contd.)


                                                                                                                                      (In H)

                                                                                                                   Others,
            Sr.                                              Fee for attending Board/                               please
            No.       Name                                       Committee meetings               Commission       Specify           Total



              2       Other Non-executive
                      Directors
                      1. Sanjiv Bajaj                                              800,000            2,000,000         –        2,800,000
                      2. Shekhar Bajaj                                             700,000            1,750,000         –        2,450,000
                      3. Niraj Bajaj                                               700,000            1,750,000         –        2,450,000
                      4. Madhur Bajaj                                              500,000            1,250,000         –        1,750,000
                      Total (B)(2)                                              2,700,000            6,750,000          –       9,450,000
                      Total (B)(1) + (B)(2)                                    11,000,000           30,500,000          –      41,500,000
                      Overall Ceiling as per the Act                                                                         7,311,600,000
            Note: Overall ceiling as per Act is not applicable to Sitting fees paid to non-executive directors.
                  * Passed away on 22 February 2020.



            C. Remuneration to key managerial personnel other than MD/Manager/WTD
                                                                                                                                      (In H)


            Sr. No.     Particulars of remuneration                                               Dr. J Sridhar (CS)     Soumen Ray (CFO)



                1       Gross Salary
                        a. Salary as per provisions contained in
                           section 17(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961                                       18,673,088           40,733,100
                         b. Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of
                            Income Tax Act, 1961                                                              662,138             120,000
                         c. Profits in lieu of salary under section 17(3) of
                            Income Tax Act, 1961                                                                   –                      –
                2       Stock Option                                                                               –                      –
                3       Sweat Equity                                                                               –                      –
                4       Commission
                        –    as % of profit                                                                        –                      –
                        –    others                                                                                –                      –
                5       Others, please specify
                        -    Contribution to PF etc.                                                        1,140,531            2,062,339
                         Total                                                                            20,475,757           42,915,439



            VII. Penalties/punishment/compounding of offences:

            During the year 2019-20, there were no penalties/punishment/compounding of offences under the
            Companies Act, 2013.




110    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                 Directors’ Report




Annexure to Directors' Report
Remuneration Details under Rule 5 (1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
Personnel) Rules, 2014 (as amended) for the year ended 31 March 2020

                                                                                               Ratio of Remuneration
                                                                                                of director to Median
                                                                                                     Remuneration of                        % increase in the
Sr. No.       Name of Director/KMP                                                                        employees                            financial year


   (A)        Whole-time Directors/Managerial Personnel
              Rahul Bajaj-Chairman                                                                                      174.81                                   1.62
              Rajiv Bajaj-Managing Director                                                                             600.36                                 23.38
              Pradeep Shrivastava-Executive Director                                                                    118.37                                 18.12
              Rakesh Sharma-Executive Director1                                                                         110.77                                   0.00
              Whole-time Directors in aggregate                                                                                                                19.37
   (B)        Non-executive Directors²
              Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                  1.88                                 4.17
              Sanjiv Bajaj                                                                                                  3.01                               66.67
              Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                 2.64                               94.44
              D J Balaji Rao                                                                                                5.65                               38.89
              Nanoo Pamnani3                                                                                                8.28                               11.11
              Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                   2.64                               45.83
              Dr. Gita Piramal                                                                                              6.02                               56.86
              Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                                            4.89                               44.44
              Dr. Omkar Goswami                                                                                             3.01                               66.67
              Anami N. Roy                                                                                                  2.64                               45.83
              Ms. Lila Poonawalla4                                                                                          2.64                                 0.00
              Pradip Shah5                                                                                                  2.64                                 0.00
   (C)        Key Managerial Personnel
              Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director                                                                                                                   23.38
              Soumen Ray, CFO                                                                                                                                  14.36
              Dr. J Sridhar, Company Secretary                                                                                                                 20.75
   (D)        Remuneration of Median Employee (other than Whole-time Directors)                                                                                  1.68
   (E)        Permanent employees as on 31 March 20206 : 7,921


1. Rakesh Sharma was appointed w.e.f. 1 January 2019. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
2. (a) Remuneration payable to Non-executive directors is based on the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees attended by them as member during the year.
   (b) Remuneration to directors for the above purposes does not include sitting fees paid to them for attending Board/Committee meetings.
3. (a) As approved by the Board, Late Nanoo Pamnani is being paid an additional commission of H 30 Lakh, for certain additional services rendered by him during the year,
		 at the request of the Management.
   (b) Consequent upon sad demise of Nanoo Pamnani, Independent director on the Board, he ceased to be director w.e.f. 22 February 2020.
4. Ms. Lila Poonawalla was appointed w.e.f. 1 April 2019. Figures regarding % increase in her case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
5. Pradeep Shah was appointed w.e.f. 1 April 2019. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
6. The term ‘Permanent Employees’ does not include trainees, probationers and contract employees.


Notes on Disclosures under Rule 5

1. In FY 2019-20, the remuneration of median employee other than Whole-time Directors increased
   by 1.68% over the previous year.
2. Increase in the remuneration of the Whole-time Directors/Managerial Personnel, which in the
   aggregate was 19.37% during the year under review, was given, keeping in view the trends of
   remuneration in industry.
3. The remuneration paid as above was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.




                                                                                                                         13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                         l   111
Directors’ Report




            Secretarial Audit Report (Form No. MR-3)
            [Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies
            (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]

            For the financial year ended 31 March 2020.


            To,
            The Members,
            Bajaj Auto Ltd.
            (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
            Mumbai-Pune Road,
            Akurdi, Pune-411035.

            I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the
            adherence to good corporate practices by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter called as ‘the Company’). Subject
            to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by COVID-19 pandemic lock down
            while taking review after completion of financial year, the Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner
            that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and
            expressing my opinion thereon.

            Based on my verification of the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
            maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents
            and authorised representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, I hereby report that in my
            opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31 March 2020,
            complied with the applicable statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company
            has proper Board-processes and compliance mechanism in place subject to the reporting
            made hereinafter:

            I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained
            by the Company for the financial year ended on 31 March 2020, according to the provisions of:

            1) The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules made thereunder;

            2) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;

            3) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;

            4) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder
               to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External
               Commercial Borrowings;

            5) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of
               India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) to the extent applicable:-

                (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
                    Regulations, 2011;

                (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015,
                    as amended;

                (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
                    Regulations, 2018;

                (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;

                (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)
                    Regulations, 2008;




112    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
Directors’ Report




                (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)
                    Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;

                (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009;

                (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; and

                (i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                    Regulations, 2015, as amended.

            6) Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 to the extent of product certification before production and from time
               to time primarily in respect of vehicles manufactured by the Company.

            I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:-

                (i) Secretarial Standards pursuant to section 118(10) of the Act, issued by the Institute of Company
                    Secretaries of India.

                (ii) Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Ltd. and National Stock Exchange
                     of India Ltd. as per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                     Regulations, 2015, as amended.

            During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, rules,
            regulations, guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above.

            I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of
            executive directors, non-executive directors and independent directors including a woman director.
            The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under
            review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.

            Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings including Committees
            thereof, along with agenda and detailed notes on agenda at least seven days in advance and a system
            exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the
            meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting by the directors. The decisions at the meeting
            were carried unanimously.

            I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the
            size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,
            regulations and guidelines.

            I further report that during the audit period, there was no other event/action having major bearing on
            affairs of the Company.


                                                                                              Shyamprasad D Limaye
            Pune: 20 May 2020                                                                FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
            UDIN: F001587B000260791




114    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                       Directors’ Report




Independent Auditors’ Report on compliance with
the conditions of Corporate Governance
[As per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended]

To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Mumbai–Pune Road,
Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

1. The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter ‘the Company’), contains
   details as specified in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub – regulation (2) of regulation 46
   and para C, D, and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
   and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (‘the Listing Regulations’) (‘Applicable
   criteria’) for the year ended 31 March 2020 as required by the Company for annual submission to
   the Stock Exchange.

Management’s responsibility

2. The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of
   the Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and
   documents. This responsibility also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
   internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Governance Report.

3. The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the
   Company complies with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing
   Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.

Auditors’ responsibility

4. Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to provide
   a reasonable assurance in the form of an opinion whether, the Company has complied with the
   conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations referred to in
   paragraph 1 above.

5. We conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the
   Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes and the Guidance Note on
   Certification of Corporate Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
   (‘ICAI’). The Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes requires that we comply
   with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.

6. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control
   (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial
   Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.

7. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks
   associated in compliance of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria. Summary
   of procedures performed include:
   i. Read and understood the information prepared by the Company and included in its Corporate
        Governance Report;
   ii. Obtained and verified that the composition of the Board of Directors with respect to executive
        and non-executive directors has been met throughout the reporting period;
   iii. Obtained and read the Register of Directors as on 31 March 2020 and verified that at least one
        independent woman director was on the Board of Directors throughout the year;
   iv. Obtained and read the minutes of the following committee meetings held between 1 April 2019
        to 31 March 2020:
		 (a) Board of Directors meetings;
		 (b) Audit Committee meetings;
		 (c) Annual General meeting;



                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    115
Directors’ Report




            		      (d) Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings;
            		      (e) Stakeholders Relationship Committee meeting; and
            		      (f) Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee meeting;
              v.    Obtained and read the draft minutes of the following committee meetings held on 20 May 2020
                    for the year ended 31 March 2020:
            		 (a) independent directors meeting in compliance with MCA General circular No. 11/2020 dated
                        24 March 2020;
            		 (b) Risk Management Committee meeting in compliance with SEBI circular no SEBI/HO/CFD/
                        CMD1/CIR/P/2020/48 dated 26 March 2020.
              vi. Obtained necessary declarations from the directors of the Company.
              vii. Obtained and read the policy adopted by the Company for related party transactions.
              viii. Obtained the schedule of related party transactions during the year and balances at the
                    year-end. Obtained and read the minutes of the Audit Committee meeting wherein such related
                    party transactions have been pre-approved prior by the Audit Committee.
              ix. Performed necessary inquiries with the Management and also obtained necessary specific
                    representations from Management.

            8. The above-mentioned procedures include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the
               Corporate Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope of work under this report did not
               involve us performing audit tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the fairness
               or accuracy of any of the financial information or the financial statements of the Company taken
               as a whole.

            Opinion

            9.    Based on the procedures performed by us, as referred in paragraph 7 above, and according to the
                 information and explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with
                 the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations, as applicable for the
                 year ended 31 March 2020, referred to in paragraph 4 above.

            Other matters and Restriction on Use

            10. This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or
                effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

            11. This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of
                enabling it to comply with its obligations under the Listing Regulations with reference to compliance
                with the relevant regulations of Corporate Governance and should not be used by any other person
                or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care
                or for any other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may come
                without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this report for events and
                circumstances occurring after the date of this report.


            For S R B C & CO LLP
            Chartered Accountants
            ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003




            per Arvind Sethi
            Partner
            Membership Number: 89802
            UDIN: 20089802AAAABV7525

            Pune: 20 May 2020




116    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                     Directors’ Report




Declaration by Chief Executive Officer (MD)
[Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V (Part D) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]


I, Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO of Bajaj Auto Ltd. hereby declare that all the members of
Board of Directors and Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of
Board of Directors and Senior Management of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2020.

Rajiv Bajaj
Managing Director and CEO

Pune: 20 May 2020



Certificate by Practising Company Secretary
[Pursuant to Schedule V read with Regulation 34(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 (as amended)]

In the matter of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076) having its registered office at
Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune-411035.

On the basis of examination of the books, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
maintained by the Company and declarations made by the directors and explanations given by the
Company and subject to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by
COVID-19 pandemic lock down;

I certify that the following persons are Directors of the Company (during 01/04/2019 to 31/03/2020)
and none of them have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of
companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.

Sr. No. Name of Director                                                  DIN            Designation


   1      Rahulkumar Kamalnayan Bajaj                                  00014529          Executive Chairman
   2      Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                               00014593          Non-Executive Vice Chairman
   3      Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                                  00018262          Managing Director
   4      Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                                 00014615          Non-Executive Director
   5      Shekhar Bajaj                                                00089358          Non-Executive Director
   6      Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                                00028261          Non-Executive Director
   7      Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton                              00025254          Independent Director
   8      Gita Piramal                                                 01080602          Independent Director
   9      Pradeep Shrivastava                                          07464437          Executive Director
   10     Naushad Darius Forbes                                        00630825          Independent Director
   11     Omkar Goswami                                                00004258          Independent Director
   12     Anami Narayan Prema Roy                                      01361110          Independent Director
   13     Rakesh Sharma                                                08262670          Executive Director
   14     Pradip Panalal Shah                                          00066242          Independent Director
   15     Lila Firoz Poonawalla                                        00074392          Independent Director
Note: Nanoo Gobindram Pamnani, Independent Director ceased to be director on 22 February 2020 on account of death.




                                                                                                 Shyamprasad D Limaye
Pune: 20 May 2020                                                                               FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
UDIN: F001587B000260791



                                                                                           13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l     117
STANDALONE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements
To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’), which comprise the
Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2020, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the
Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended and notes to the standalone Ind AS financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as
‘standalone financial statements’).

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (‘the Act’) in the manner so required and give
a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company
as at 31 March 2020, its profit including other comprehensive loss, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended on
that date.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the standalone financial statement’ section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the
‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone financial statements.

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2020. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
standalone financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled
the responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of our
report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to
our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements. The results of our audit procedures,
including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying
standalone financial statements.




120   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
Key audit matters                                                How our audit addressed the key audit matter


Impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s financial statements (as described in note 42 of the standalone financial statements)
Coronavirus disease 2019 (‘COVID-19’), was declared a global     We have performed the following procedures to assess and evaluate the
pandemic by World Health Organisation.                           impact on financial statements because of business decisions, government
                                                                 actions or economic environment developments:
In line with the directions on lockdown issued by the State
Governments of Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, the Company          l   Performed cut-off procedures for a larger sample of invoices during the
temporarily suspended the operations of its manufacturing            lockdown period for both domestic as well as export sales.
units at four locations from 23 March 2020 till 31 March 2020;   l   Enquired with the Company on the manner of financial support (if any)
and subsequently upto further dates as instructed by the             provided to the dealers, vendors and service providers; and their
respective State Governments.                                        recognition in the financial statements.
COVID-19 has resulted in restriction in movement of goods        l   Enquired with the Company on any information on the liquidity position of
during the period from 23 March 2020 till 31 March 2020              any dealers; and ascertained the need for any additional provisioning for
impacting normal business operations for the Company                 impairment/credit loss in the financial statements.
including revenues, receivables, purchases including services    l   We assessed the disclosures on COVID-19 made in the financial statements.
and inventories at the year-end and hence considered key         l   Our ability to perform regular audit procedures has been impacted which
audit matter.                                                        has required us in certain cases to perform alternative audit procedures
                                                                     and exercise significant judgment in respect of the following:
                                                                     a) Audit and quality control procedures which were earlier performed in
                                                                        person could not be performed; and hence alternative procedures have
                                                                        been performed based on inquiries (through phone calls, video calls and
                                                                        e-mail communications) and review of scanned documentation sent
                                                                        through e-mails, followed up with sighting with original documents.
                                                                     b) Year-end inventory observation of inventory counts could not be
                                                                        performed. However, inventory counts were observed subsequent to
                                                                        year-end; and rolled back to year-end.

We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.

Information other than the financial statements and auditors’ report thereon

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included
in the Chairman’s Letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Report but does not include the
standalone financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and in doing so,
consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management for the standalone financial statements

The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation
of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including other
comprehensive loss, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable
and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the standalone financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
Management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

                                                                                                    13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l      121
Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone
financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:

l     Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
      design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
      provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
      resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
      internal control.

l     Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
      the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company
      has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of
      such controls.

l     Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
      made by Management.

l     Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence
      obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s
      ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in
      our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
      opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or
      conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.

l     Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures,
      and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
      fair presentation.

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2020 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

1. As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2016 (‘the Order’), issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
   sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit we give in the ‘Annexure 1’ a statement on the matters specified in
   paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.

2. As required by section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:

      (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
          necessary for the purposes of our audit;



122      l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Standalone Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Standalone Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
   (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
       examination of those books;

   (c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow
       Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;

   (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
       section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

   (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2020 taken on record by the Board of
       Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2020 from being appointed as a director in terms of
       section 164 (2) of the Act;

   (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company with reference to these
       standalone financial statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in ‘Annexure 2’
       to this report;

   (g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2020 has been paid/provided by the Company to its
       directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;

   (h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with rule 11 of the Companies (Audit
       and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
       given to us:

      i.   The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements
           – Refer note 34 to the standalone financial statements;

      ii. The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
          foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer note 32 (c) to the standalone
          financial statements;

      iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
           Fund by the Company.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 20089802AAAABR2538
Pune: 20 May 2020




                                                                                              13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l      123
Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report of
even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
1. (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of property,
       plant and equipment.

      (b) All property, plant and equipment have not been physically verified by the Management during the year but there is a regular
          program of verification designed to cover all items in a phased manner over a period of three years which, in our opinion, is
          reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on
          such verification.

      (c) According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the title deeds of immovable properties included in
          property, plant and equipment; and investment property are held in the name of the Company except for buildings acquired
          in the prior years having a gross block of H 15.02 crore and a net block of H 11.92 crore whose final registration is pending as
          disclosed in note 2 to the standalone financial statements of the Company.

2. The inventory has been physically verified by the Management during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of verification is
   reasonable. No material discrepancies were noticed on such physical verification. Inventories lying with third parties have been
   confirmed by them as at 31 March 2020 and no material discrepancies were noticed in respect of such confirmations.

3. According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not granted any loans, secured or unsecured to
   companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or other parties covered in the register maintained under section 189 of the
   Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(iii)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to the
   Company and hence not commented upon.

4. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there are no loans, guarantees, and securities given
   in respect of which provisions of section 185 and 186 of the Act are applicable and hence not commented upon. In our opinion and
   according to the information and explanations given to us, provisions of section 186 of the Act in respect of investments made
   have been complied with by the Company.

5. The Company has not accepted any deposits within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance of
   Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(v) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and
   hence not commented upon.

6. To the best of our knowledge and as explained, the Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost records under
   section 148(1) of the Act for the products of the Company.

7. (a) The Company is regular in depositing with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues including provident fund,
       employees’ state insurance, income tax, customs duty, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues applicable to it.

      (b) According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of provident fund,
          employees’ state insurance, income tax, customs duty, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues were outstanding,
          at the year-end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.

      (c) According to the records of the Company, the dues of income tax, sales tax, service tax, customs duty, excise duty, value
          added tax, goods and service tax and cess on account of any dispute, are as follows:
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
         Name of                                             Period to which the                        Forum where the
         the statute        Nature of dues            Amount amount relates                             dispute is pending


                            Excise Duty                327.48 Various years from 2010-11 to 2016-17     Supreme Court
                            Excise Duty                  1.43 Various years from 1985-86 to 2001-02 High Court
         The Central
         Excise Act, 1944   Excise Duty                  1.37 Various years from 1983-84 to 2014-15 Custom Excise and Service Tax
                                                                                                    Appellate Tribunal
                            Excise Duty                  0.77 Various years from 1991-92 to 2017-18 Commissioner Appeals
         Central Sales      Sales Tax                    0.99 Various years from 1996-97 to 2001-02 High Court
         Tax Act, 1956      Sales Tax                   80.96 Various years from 2001-02 to 2010-11 Appellate Tribunal
         and Sales Tax
         Act of various     Sales Tax                    0.25 Financial year 2009-10                    Appellate Authority
         states             Sales Tax                   56.07 Various years from 1999-00 to 2014-15 Appellate Authority




124      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
       Name of                                                      Period to which the                                  Forum where the
       the statute           Nature of dues                  Amount amount relates                                       dispute is pending


                             Income Tax                       502.01 Various years from 2007-08 to 2011-12 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
       The Income Tax
       Act, 1961             Income Tax                        84.75 Financial year 2013-14 and 2014-15    Commissioner of Income Tax
                                                                                                           (Appeals)
       The Finance           Service Tax                       20.99 Various years from 2007-08 to 2011-12 Custom Excise and Service Tax
       Act, 1994                                                                                           Appellate Tribunal
                             Customs Duty                       3.85 Financial year 1984-85 and 1985-86    High Court
       The Customs
                             Customs Duty                       0.07 Financial year 2017-18                Commissioner Appeals
       Act, 1962
                             Customs Duty                       5.50 Various years from 1977-78 to 2013-14 Assistant Commissioner of Customs
                             Octroi Duty                        8.44 Various years from 1988-89 to 2004-05 High Court
       Octroi                                                        and from 2012-13 to 2016-17
                             Octroi Duty                        4.23 Various years from 1981-82 to 1988-89 District Court
       Note: The amounts disclosed above are net of the payments made to the respective authorities where the dispute is pending.


8. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given by the Management, the Company has not defaulted in
   repayment of sales tax deferral loans to the Government. The Company did not have any outstanding loans or borrowing dues in
   respect of a financial institution or bank or dues to debenture holders during the year.

9. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the Company has not raised any money way of initial
   public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) and term loans. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3 (ix) of the
   Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.

10. Based on the audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the financial statements and
    according to the information and explanations given by the Management, we report that no fraud by the Company or no fraud on
    the Company by the officers and employees of the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.

11. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the managerial remuneration has been paid/provided in
    accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.

12. In our opinion, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(xii) of the Order are not applicable to
    the Company and hence not commented upon.

13. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, transactions with the related parties are in compliance
    with sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the financial
    statements, as required by the applicable accounting standards.

14. According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the Balance Sheet, the Company
    has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the
    year under review. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3(xiv) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not
    commented upon.

15. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the Company has not entered into any non-cash
    transactions with directors or persons connected with him as referred to in section 192 of the Act.

16. According to the information and explanations given by the Management, the provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of
    India Act, 1934 are not applicable to the Company.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 20089802AAAABR2538
Pune: 20 May 2020

                                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l     125
Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report
of even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the internal financial controls under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)

We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’) as of 31 March 2020 in
conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.

Management’s responsibility for internal financial controls

The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
India. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s policies,
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Auditors’ responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to
these standalone financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing as specified under section
143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls and, both issued by the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls over financial
reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated
effectively in all material respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial
reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting with
reference to these standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the
auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud
or error.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements.

Meaning of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these financial statements

A company's internal financial control over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal financial control over
financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
    the assets of the company;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
    only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.




126   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these standalone
financial statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial
statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper Management override of controls, material misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting
with reference to these standalone financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control
over financial reporting with reference to these standalone financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference
to these standalone financial statements and such internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these
standalone financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March 2020, based on the internal control over financial reporting
criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 20089802AAAABR2538
Pune: 20 May 2020




                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    127
Standalone Financial Statements




Balance Sheet
                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                     As at 31 March
Particulars                           Note No.       2020              2019



ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment            2        1,602.03        1,688.69
Capital work-in-progress                 2           46.54             11.54
Investment property                      3           53.90             55.50
Intangible assets                        4           43.09             19.75
Intangible assets under development      4           13.65             36.48
Investments in subsidiaries             5A        1,233.26        1,222.72
Financial assets
      Investments                       5B       14,182.94       16,360.16
      Trade receivables                 10               –                 –
      Loans                              6           32.46             31.63
      Other financial assets             7             3.13             0.02
Income tax assets (net)                             714.81            584.41
Other non-current assets                 8          250.53            306.83
                                                 18,176.34      20,317.73
Current assets
Inventories                              9        1,063.50            961.51
Financial assets
      Investments                       5B        2,779.75        1,576.48
      Trade receivables                 10         1,725.10       2,559.69
      Cash and cash equivalents         11          277.33            905.38
      Other bank balances               12           30.94             17.43
      Loans                              6             6.11             6.34
      Other financial assets             7           77.56            112.94
Other current assets                     8          636.67            922.89
                                                  6,596.96        7,062.66
                                                 24,773.30      27,380.39




128      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.             2020              2019



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                13                289.37            289.37
Other equity                                                                                        14             19,636.12        21,490.53
                                                                                                                  19,925.49        21,779.90


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                              15                125.59            124.52
Provisions                                                                                          16                 80.50             14.56
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                      17               346.38             542.66
Government grant                                                                                                       41.30             43.95
Other non-current liabilities                                                                       18                  0.83               1.12
                                                                                                                     594.60             726.81


Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
		       Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                             13.73              2.65
		       Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                     3,185.97         3,784.08
    Other financial liabilities                                                                     19                548.27            370.97
Other current liabilities                                                                           20                328.88            556.97
Provisions                                                                                          16                157.97            140.62
Government grant                                                                                                        2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                          15.74             15.74
                                                                                                                   4,253.21         4,873.68
                                                                                                                  24,773.30        27,380.39
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                   1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                           On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                      Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                  Soumen Ray                                         Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                              Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                       Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                             Company Secretary                                     Vice Chairman




                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l      129
Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2020             2019



Revenue from contracts with customers                                                       29,111.54       29,567.25
Other operating revenue                                                                        807.11          790.32
Revenue from operations                                                         21         29,918.65        30,357.57
Other income                                                                    22          1,733.56         1,438.85
Total income                                                                              31,652.21        31,796.42


Expenses
Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              19,484.62        20,274.72
Purchase of traded goods                                                                    1,586.67         1,579.38
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     23            (63.01)          (56.42)
Employee benefits expense                                                       24          1,389.21         1,255.40
Finance costs                                                                   25               3.16             4.48
Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           26            246.43           265.69
Other expenses                                                                  27          2,454.90          2,142.11
Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (29.97)          (30.10)
Total expenses                                                                            25,072.01        25,435.26


Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     6,580.20        6,361.16


Exceptional items                                                               28                  –        (342.00)


Profit before tax                                                                           6,580.20        6,703.16


Tax expense
Current tax                                                                                  1,547.26        1,818.59
Deferred tax                                                                                  (67.04)          209.39
Total tax expense                                                               29          1,480.22         2,027.98


Profit for the year                                                                         5,099.98        4,675.18




130    l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                         Note No.              2020             2019



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                   (37.95)            (5.47)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                    4.76             1.91
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                 (550.03)           84.33
    Tax impact on above                                                                                  62.39             (9.82)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                         (221.11)             5.54
    Tax impact on above                                                                                  62.09             (1.94)


Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)                                                  (679.85)            74.55


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                               4,420.13        4,749.73


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                           30                  176.3            161.6
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                     1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                             On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                       Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                        Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                               Soumen Ray                              Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                          Chief Financial Officer                   Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                      Dr. J Sridhar                           Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                           Company Secretary                         Vice Chairman




                                                                                    13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l      131
Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Changes in Equity
A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                           For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            Note No.                       2020                  2019


At the beginning of the year                                                                                                                     289.37                   289.37
Changes in equity share capital                                                                                                                          –                        –
At the end of the year                                                                                                     13                    289.37                  289.37

B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                     Reserves and surplus                              Other reserves
                                                                                                Cash flow   Costs of                    Share based
                                                              Note    General       Retained     hedging    hedging          FVTOCI       payments      Treasury        Total other
Particulars                                                   No.     reserve       earnings      reserve   reserve         reserve         reserve       shares             equity



Balance as at 31 March 2018                                   14      4,453.60     14,321.65        79.72    (40.48)               –              –               –       18,814.49


Profit for the year                                                         –       4,675.18           –          –                –              –               –        4,675.18
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                     –          (3.56)     (19.41)     23.01             74.51             –               –           74.55
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2019                 –       4,671.62      (19.41)     23.01             74.51             –               –        4,749.73


Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                      468.00       (468.00)          –          –                –              –               –               –
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2018                             –      (1,736.20)          –          –                –              –               –       (1,736.20)
Tax on final dividend as above                                              –        (337.49)          –          –                –              –               –        (337.49)


Balance as at 31 March 2019                                   14      4,921.60     16,451.58       60.31     (17.47)            74.51            –                –      21,490.53


Profit for the year                                                         –       5,099.98           –          –                –              –               –        5,099.98
Recognition of share based payments to employees                            –               –          –          –                –          10.01               –           10.01
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                     –         (33.19)     (54.68)   (104.34)        (487.64)              –               –        (679.85)
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2020                 –       5,066.79      (54.68)   (104.34)        (487.64)          10.01               –        4,430.14


Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                      510.00       (510.00)          –          –                –             –                –               –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                          –               –          –          –                –             –           (26.62)         (26.62)
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2019                             –      (1,736.20)          –          –                –             –                –       (1,736.20)
Tax on final dividend as above                                              –        (335.57)          –          –                –             –                –        (335.57)
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020                           –      (3,472.40)          –          –                –             –                –       (3,472.40)
Tax on interim dividend as above                                            –        (713.76)          –          –                –             –                –        (713.76)


Balance as at 31 March 2020                                   14      5,431.60     14,750.44        5.63    (121.81)        (413.13)          10.01      (26.62)         19,636.12
Summary of significant accounting policies
followed by the Company                                        1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                                                    On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                 Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                             Soumen Ray                                                        Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                                        Chief Financial Officer                                             Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                                    Dr. J Sridhar                                                     Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                                         Company Secretary                                                   Vice Chairman



132       l       BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                            Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                 2020                            2019


I.   Operating activities
        Profit before tax                                                                            6,580.20                        6,703.16
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
          i) Depreciation and amortisation                                             246.43                           265.69
          ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
              discarded and scrapped                                                     13.70                            8.41
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                 22.01                              1.19
         iv) Share based payment to employees                                            10.01                                  –
          v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                           (2.16)                          26.96
         vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                  (15.41)                           2.94
         vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                    (1.98)                          (0.02)
        viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                     1.06                            0.96
         ix) Interest expense                                                             2.10                            3.52
                                                                                                       275.76                           309.65
        Less:
           i) Investment income included in above:
                Interest income on fixed income securities                               17.04                           24.33
                Interest income on fixed deposits                                       28.90                                   –
                Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                903.55                           829.65
                Profit on sale of other investments, net                                 19.53                            1.92
                Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at
                fair value through profit or loss                                      462.70                           361.19
                Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                         208.99                            94.36
                Dividend income on other strategic investments                          25.38                                   –
                Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of fixed
                income securities                                                        18.24                           48.21
                                                                                      1,684.33                        1,359.66
          ii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back (net)                0.54                            1.22
          iii) Government grants                                                          2.65                            2.65
          iv) Exceptional item - NCCD reversal                                               –                          342.00
          v) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                             5.28                           55.05
                                                                                                    (1,692.80)                      (1,760.58)
                                                                                                      5,163.16                       5,252.23
        Change in assets and liabilities
          i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                       (101.99)                         (218.93)
          ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                                 828.53                        (1,070.47)
         iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                            409.28                          (167.67)
         iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                        (759.30)                         664.55
                                                                                                       376.52                        (792.52)
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                              (0.26)                          (5.84)
        Net cash flow from operating activities before income tax                                    5,539.42                        4,453.87
              Income tax refund/(paid) for earlier years (net)                                               –                          (10.00)
              Income tax paid                                                                        (1,677.66)                     (1,954.34)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                            3,861.76                       2,489.53


                                                                    Carried forward                   3,861.76                       2,489.53


                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l      133
Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2020                            2019


                                                                Brought forward                     3,861.76                       2,489.53
II. Investing activities
           i) Investment in subsidiary                                               (10.54)                                  –
           ii) Sale of investments                                                  5,178.94                        9,140.38
        iii) Purchase of investments                                               (3,517.96)                      (9,600.95)
        iv) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                        166.96                           214.81
           v) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                            (26.62)                                  –
        vi) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                (13.51)                          (0.37)
        vii) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)         (282.81)                        (163.53)
       viii) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment                            16.74                           76.16
        ix) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                 (13.93)                          (20.78)
                                                                                    1,497.27                        (354.28)
           x) Investment income
              Interest income on fixed income securities                               17.04                           24.33
              Interest income on fixed deposits                                        28.90                                  –
              Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                         208.99                            94.36
              Dividend income on other strategic investments                          25.38                                   –
                                                                                     280.31                           118.69
        (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                                   (23.04)                           (8.49)
                                                                                     257.27                           110.20


        Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                          1,754.54                        (244.08)


                                                                 Carried forward                   5,616.30                        2,245.45




134    l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                  2020                            2019


                                                                 Brought forward                       5,616.30                       2,245.45
III. Financing activities
          i) Interest expense                                                             (2.10)                          (3.52)
         ii) Deferral of sales tax deferral liability                                         –                            2.79
         iii) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                               (5,195.10)                      (1,735.83)
         iv) Corporate dividend tax paid                                              (1,049.31)                        (337.49)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                            (6,246.51)                     (2,074.05)


        Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                       (630.21)                         171.40


        Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                          905.38                           760.94
        Add/(Less): Effects of exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                           2.16                          (26.96)
        Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                                  277.33                           905.38



As per our report of even date                                                                            On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                      Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                       Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                 Soumen Ray                                           Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                            Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                         Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                            Company Secretary                                       Vice Chairman




                                                                                                   13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l      135
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020
Background

Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. ‘The Company’ is engaged in the
business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles etc. and parts
thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets. The registered office of the Company is
located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

The standalone financial statements were approved for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the
Company on 20 May 2020.

1     Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company

Basis of preparation

These standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as
amended from time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
(including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value or amortised book value.

The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as
12 months for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

Significant accounting policies

This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

1     Use of estimates, judgments and assumptions

      Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of these financial statements and disclosures made therein are based upon
      Management’s evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements, which may differ
      from the actual results at a subsequent date. The following are items which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to
      estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than those originally assessed. Detailed information about each of these
      estimates is included in the relevant notes together with information about basis of calculation for each affected line item in the
      financial statements:

         a)   Estimation of fair value of derivative instruments
         b)   Estimation of variable considerations in revenue
         c)   Provision for warranties
         d)   Provision for employee benefits
         e)   Provision for tax expenses
         f)   Residual value and useful life of property, plant and equipment
         g)   Valuation of investments
         h)   Inventory provisioning

2     Revenue from contracts with customers

      Revenue is recognised when control of goods (vehicles or parts) and services have been transferred to the customer; at an
      amount that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The
      timing of when the Company transfers the goods or provide services may differ from the timing of the customer’s payment.
      Amounts disclosed as revenue are net of goods and service tax (GST).




136      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
  The Company has generally concluded that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements, except for the agency services below
  (in respect of freight), because it typically controls the goods or services before transferring them to the customer.

  The disclosures of significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to revenue from contracts with
  customers are provided below.

  Sale of goods (vehicles or parts)

  The Company has determined that our customers from the sale of goods are generally dealers and distributors. Transfer of
  control, and therefore revenue recognition, generally corresponds to the date when the goods are made available to the customer,
  or when the goods are released to the carrier responsible for transporting them to the customer in the following manner:

  l   Domestic sales are recognised at the time of dispatch from the point of sale;

  l   Export sales are recognised on the date when shipped on board as per terms of sale and are initially recorded at the relevant
      exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction

  Generally, Company does not offer any specific credit period to its customer. All invoices are due immediately after billing.

  The nature of contracts of the Company are such that no material part performance obligations would remain unfulfilled at the
  end of any accounting period.

  Variable consideration

  If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount (like volume rebates/incentives, cash discounts etc.), the Company
  estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer. The
  variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue
  reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable
  consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate of variable consideration for expected future volume rebates/incentives,
  cash discounts etc. are made on the most likely amount method.

  Consideration payable to the customer

  Consideration payable to a customer includes cash amounts that the Company pays, or expects to pay, to the customer.
  The consideration payable to a customer is accounted for as a reduction of the revenue.

  Warranty obligations

  The Company provides warranties for general repairs of defects as per terms of the contract with ultimate customers.
  These warranties are considered as assurance type warranties and are accounted for under Ind AS 37- Provisions,
  Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

  Financing component

  Generally, the Company receives short-term advances from its customers. The Company applies the practical expedient for
  short-term advances received from customers. That is, the promised amount of consideration is not adjusted for the effects
  of a significant financing component if the period between the transfer of the promised good or service and the payment is one
  year or less.

  Principal versus agent consideration in respect of freight

  The Company, on behalf of its customers (dealers and distributors), dispatches goods to agreed locations for an agreed fee.
  The Company has determined that the performance obligation of the Company is to arrange for those goods and services
  (Company is an agent) to the dealers and hence the amount charged to the customer offset by freight charges paid to the freight
  service providers is shown as revenue and disclosed as other operating income or other operating expenses, depending upon the
  results of the offsetting.




                                                                                              13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l   137
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
      Contract balances

      Trade receivables

      A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage of time is
      required before payment of the consideration is due). Refer to accounting policy no. 6 Financial instruments – initial measurement
      and subsequent measurement.

      Contract liabilities

      A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods to a customer for which the Company has received consideration (or an
      amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company transfers goods or
      services to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made, or the payment is due (whichever is earlier).
      Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract.

      Refund liabilities

      A refund liability is the obligation to refund some or all the consideration received (or receivable) from the customer and is
      measured at the amount the Company ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer. The Company updates its
      estimates of refund liabilities (and the corresponding change in the transaction price) at the end of each reporting period.

3     Property, plant and equipment and depreciation/amortisation

      A. Property, plant and equipment

         i)   Capital work in progress, property, plant and equipment except land are carried at historical cost of acquisition,
              construction or manufacturing, as the case may be, less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Freehold land is
              carried at cost of acquisition.

         ii) Cost represents all expenses directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition capable of operating
             in the manner intended. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment, if the recognition
             criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company
             depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost
             is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
             All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.

         iii) Costs incurred to manufacture/construct property, plant and equipment are reduced from the total expense under the
              head ‘Expenses, included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

         iv) Land and buildings acquired/constructed, not intended to be used in the operations of the Company and held for earning
             long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company, are categorised as
             investment property.

         v) An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or
            when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the
            asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in
            the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is derecognised.

         vi) The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at regular
             intervals and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.

      B. Depreciation and amortisation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value

         (a) Leasehold land

              Premium on leasehold land is amortised over the period of lease.

         (b) Other tangible assets

              i.   a. Depreciation is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method to allocate the cost, net of residual value over
                      the estimated useful lives of the assets.


138      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
       		      b. Where a significant component (in terms of cost) of an asset has an estimated economic useful life shorter than
                  that of its corresponding asset, the component is depreciated over its shorter life.

       		      c. The Company, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and Management estimate, depreciates
                  certain items of property, plant and equipment over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life
                  prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The Management believes that these estimated useful lives
                  are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used.

            ii. Assets which are depreciated over useful life/residual value different than those indicated by Schedule II are as under:
               Asset class                           As per Schedule II                        Useful life

               Aircraft                              20 years                                  10 years
               PDC Dies                              8 years                                   3 years

            iii. Depreciation on additions is being provided on pro rata basis from the month of such additions.

            iv. Depreciation on assets sold, discarded or demolished during the year is being provided up to the month in which such
                assets are sold, discarded or demolished.

4   Intangible assets

    A. Technical know-how acquired

       Technical know-how acquired is stated at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any.
       Acquired technical know-how is amortised equally over a period of estimated useful life i.e. six years.

    B. Technical know-how developed by the Company

       i)   Expenditure incurred by the Company on development of know-how researched, is recognised as an intangible asset, if
            and only if the future economic benefits attributable to the use of such know-how are probable to flow to the Company
            and the costs/expenditure can be measured reliably.

       ii) Costs incurred to develop an intangible asset are reduced from total expenses and disclosed under the head ‘Expenses,
           included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

       iii) The cost of technical know-how developed is amortised equally over its estimated useful life i.e. generally three years
            from the date of commencement of commercial production.

    C. Research and development costs

       Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project are recognised as an intangible
       asset when the Company can demonstrate:

       l    The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale

       l    Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset

       l    How the asset will generate future economic benefits

       l    The availability of resources to complete the asset

       l    The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development

       Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated
       amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete, and the
       asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation expense is recognised in the
       Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset.

		     During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.



                                                                                                   13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    139
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
5     Investment property

      Property which is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company,
      is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
      Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits
      associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Repairs and
      maintenance costs are expensed when incurred.

      Depreciation on investment property is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method over the estimated useful lives.
      Useful life of assets, as assessed by the Management, corresponds to those prescribed by Schedule II- Part ‘C’ of the
      Companies Act, 2013.

6     Investments and financial assets

      A. Investment in subsidiaries

         Interest in subsidiaries are recognised at cost. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the said investments.

         The Company assesses at the end of each reporting period, if there are any indications that the said investments may be
         impaired. If so, the Company estimates the recoverable value/amount of the investment and provides for impairment, if any
         i.e. the deficit in the recoverable value over cost.

      B. Other investments and financial assets

         i.   Classification

              The Company classifies its financial assets at initial recognition in the following measurement categories:

              l   those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income, or through profit or
                  loss), and

              l   those to be measured at amortised cost.

              The classification is done depending upon the Company’s business model for managing the financial assets and the
              contractual terms of the cash flows.

              For assets classified as ‘measured at fair value’, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other
              comprehensive income, as elected. For assets classified as ‘measured at amortised cost’, this will depend on the business
              model and contractual terms of the cash flows.

         ii. Measurement

              Initial measurement

              Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other
              comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The classification of financial assets at initial
              recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Company’s business model for
              managing them.

              At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value including, in the case of ‘a financial asset
              not at FVTPL’, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of
              financial assets carried at ‘FVTPL’ are expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss, when incurred.

              Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Company has applied the
              practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer accounting policy no.2
              ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.




140      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
        For a financial asset to be classified and subsequently measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI (excluding equity
        instruments which are measured at FVTOCI), it needs to give rise to cash flows that are ‘solely payments of principal and
        interest (SPPI)’ on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at
        an instrument level. Financial assets with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified and measured at FVTPL, irrespective
        of the business model.

        The Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets to generate
        cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling
        the financial assets, or both.

        Subsequent measurement

        Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on the Company’s business model for managing the financial asset
        and the cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Company
        classifies its financial instruments:

        Subsequently measured at amortised cost:

        A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:

        a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and

        b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
           interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.

        Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent SPPI are
        measured at amortised cost e.g. debentures, bonds, fixed maturity plans, trade receivables etc.

        This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently
        measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into
        account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. Interest income
        from trade receivables is included in other operating income in the Statement of Profit and Loss; whilst interest
        income from the remaining financial assets is included in other income in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The
        losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. A gain or loss on a financial asset
        that is subsequently measured at amortised cost is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is
        derecognised or impaired.

        In case of fixed maturity plans (FMP), they are measured at amortised cost, if the Company intends to hold the FMPs to
        maturity. Further, the Company applies amortised cost for those FMPs where the Company is able to demonstrate that the
        underlying instruments in the portfolio would fulfill the SPPI test and the churn in the underlying portfolio is negligible. These
        conditions are assessed at each Balance Sheet date. If these conditions are not fulfilled, then FMPs are valued at FVTPL.

        Subsequently measured at FVTOCI:

        All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading,
        if any, are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company may make an irrevocable election to
        present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an
        instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.

        Equity instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair
        value. Fair value movements are recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI). If the Company decides to classify
        an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, are recognised
        in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to Statement of Profit and Loss, even on sale of investment.
        However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.

        Subsequently measured at FVTPL:

        Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost and FVTOCI are measured at fair value through profit
        or loss e.g. investments in mutual funds. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at fair value
        through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other
        gains/(losses) in the period in which it arises.


                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    141
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
           In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVTOCI
           criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or
           recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has designated investments in mutual
           funds (other than FMP) as at FVTPL. Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with
           all changes recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

       iii. Impairment of financial assets

           The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its financial assets carried
           at amortised cost for e.g., debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balances; and lease receivables. The
           impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and if so, assess
           the need to provide for the same in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

           The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables and all
           lease receivables.

           The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises
           impairment loss allowance based on lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) at each reporting date, right from its
           initial recognition.

           For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines whether there
           has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly,
           12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL
           is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant
           increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on
           12-month ECL.

           Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial
           instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within
           12 months after the reporting date.

           ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract
           and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When
           estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider all contractual terms of the financial instrument over the
           expected life of the financial instrument.

           ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised during the period is recognised as income/expense in the
           Statement of Profit and Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the Statement of Profit and
           Loss. The Balance Sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below:

           l   Financial assets measured at amortised cost, revenue receivables and lease receivables: ECL is presented as an
               allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the Balance Sheet. The allowance reduces
               the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance
               from the gross carrying amount.

           For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments based on shared
           credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in
           credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.

           For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, the Company applies the low credit risk simplification. At every reporting
           date, the Company evaluates whether the debt instrument is considered to have low credit risk using all reasonable and
           supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. In making that evaluation, the Company reassesses
           the internal credit rating of the debt instrument.

           However, in certain cases, the Company may also consider a financial asset to be in default when internal or external
           information indicates that the Company is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking
           into account any credit enhancements held by the Company. A financial asset is written off when there is no reasonable
           expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.




142   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                            Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
       iv. Derecognition of financial assets

           A financial asset is derecognised only when Company has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the financial
           asset or the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired. Where the entity has transferred an asset,
           the Company evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
           In such cases, the financial asset is derecognised.

       v. Reclassification of financial assets

           The Company determines classification of financial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition,
           no reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial assets
           which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is a change in the business model for managing those
           assets. Changes to the business model are expected to be infrequent. The Company’s senior management determines
           change in the business model as a result of external or internal changes which are significant to the Company’s
           operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. A change in the business model occurs when the Company
           either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations. If the Company reclassifies financial
           assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date which is the first day of the immediately
           next reporting period following the change in business model. The Company does not restate any previously recognised
           gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest.

           The Company applies amortised cost, where it has ability to demonstrate that the underlying instruments in the portfolio
           fulfill the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) test and the churn in the portfolio is negligible.

7   Derivative and hedging activities

    The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as range forward and par forward currency contracts to hedge its
    foreign currency risks. Such derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date at which the derivative
    contract is entered and are subsequently re-measured at fair value as at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for
    subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature
    of the item being hedged, and the type of hedge relationship designated.

    The Company documents its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. In terms
    thereof, the Company designates their derivatives as hedges of foreign exchange risks associated with the cash flow of highly
    probable forecast transactions (viz. export sales).

    The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the
    hedged item is more than 12 months; it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item
    is less than or equal to 12 months.

    Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting –

    The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised
    in the other comprehensive income in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of
    the hedged item on a present value basis from the inception of the hedge. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is
    recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss, within other gains/(losses).

    For hedge accounting, hedges are classified as Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is
    either attributable to a risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign
    currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.

    When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates them in entirety as the hedging
    instrument. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value for the effective portion of cash flow hedges is recognised
    in OCI and later reclassified to profit or loss when the hedge item affects profit or loss.

    Where option contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates intrinsic value of the option contract as
    hedging instrument.

    Gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in intrinsic value of the option contract are recognised in the
    cash flow hedging reserve within equity. The changes in time value of the option contracts that relate to the hedged items are
    recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’ within equity.



                                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    143
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
      When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative
      gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a forecast transaction is no
      longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Statement of
      Profit and Loss. When a hedging instrument is unexercised and expires, the cumulative gain or loss is reversed within equity with
      the corresponding effect to the hedge receivable/payable.

      If the hedge ratio for risk management is no longer optimal, but risk management objectives remain unchanged and hedge
      continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationships are re-balanced so that the hedge ratio aligns. Consequently,
      hedge ineffectiveness is computed and accounted for in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

8     Impairment of non-financial assets

      Assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
      recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
      amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of
      assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are
      largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets (cash-generating units).

9     Foreign currency transactions

      i)   Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which
           the Company operates (‘the functional currency’).

      ii) On initial recognition, all foreign currency transactions are recorded at the foreign exchange rate on the date of the
          transaction.

      iii) Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency outstanding at the close of the financial year are revalorised at the
           appropriate exchange rates prevailing at the close of the year.

      iv) The gain or loss on decrease/increase in reporting currency due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, in case of monetary
          assets and liabilities in foreign currency, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

      v) Fixed assets purchased at liaison offices in foreign exchange are recorded at their historical cost computed with reference to
         the average rate of foreign exchange remitted to the liaison office.

      vi) Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
          rates at the dates of the initial transactions.

      vii) In determining the spot exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) on the
           derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to advance consideration, the date of the transaction
           is the date on which the Company initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the
           advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the Company determines the transaction date
           for each payment or receipt of advance consideration.

10 Inventories

      Cost of inventories have been computed to include all costs of purchases (including materials), cost of conversion and other costs
      incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

      i)   Finished stocks of vehicles and auto spare parts and stocks of work-in-progress are valued at cost of manufacturing or net
           realisable value whichever is lower. Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.

      ii) Stores, packing materials and tools are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
          whichever is lower.

      iii) Raw materials and components are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
           whichever is lower.

      iv) Inventory of machinery spares and maintenance materials not being material are expensed in the year of purchase.




144        l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                            Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   v) Goods in transit are stated at actual cost incurred up to the date of Balance Sheet.

   Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the
   estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

11 Employee benefits

   a) Privilege leave entitlements

      Privilege leave entitlements are recognised as a liability, in the calendar year of rendering of service, as per the rules of the
      Company. As accumulated leave can be availed and/or encashed at any time during the tenure of employment, subject to
      terms and conditions of the scheme, the liability is recognised based on an independent actuarial valuation.

      They are therefore measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided
      by employees up to the end of the reporting period using the projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted using
      the market yields at the end of the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
      Remeasurements as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in Statement
      of Profit and Loss.

   b) Gratuity

      Payment for present liability of future payment of gratuity is being made to approved gratuity fund, which fully covers the
      same under Cash Accumulation Policy and Debt fund of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Bajaj Allianz Life
      Insurance Company Ltd. (BALIC). However, any deficit in plan assets managed by LIC and BALIC as compared to the liability
      based on an independent actuarial valuation is recognised as a liability.

      The liability or asset recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value of the
      defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation
      is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method in conformity with the principles and manner of
      computation specified in Ind AS 19.

      Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net
      interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on the net
      defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the Balance Sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings
      through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.

      The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
      value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

   c) Superannuation

      Defined contribution to superannuation fund is being made as per the scheme of the Company and recognised as expense as
      and when due.

   d) Provident fund contributions are made to Company's Provident Fund Trust. The contributions are accounted for as defined
      benefit plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Deficits, if any, of the fund
      as compared to liability based on an independent actuarial valuation is to be additionally contributed by the Company and
      hence recognised as a liability.

   e) Defined contribution to Employees Pension Scheme 1995 is made to Government Provident Fund Authority and recognised
      as expense as and when due.

12 Taxation

   a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
      authorities, in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961; and the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards prescribed
      therein. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the
      reporting date.




                                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    145
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
      b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other
         comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI
         or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
         applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

      c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
         liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
         enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
         asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

         Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
         future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

         The Company offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off
         current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes
         levied by the same taxation authority which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise
         the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities
         or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.

13 Provisions and contingent liabilities

      The Company creates a provision when there is present obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow
      of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
      amount of the obligation. A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
      that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of resources. When the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no
      provision or disclosure is made.

      If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when
      appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
      recognised as a finance cost.

14 Operating leases including investment properties

      The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract conveys the right to
      control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

      As a lessee

      a) Right-of-use assets

         The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e. the date the underlying asset is
         available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and
         adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
         recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease
         incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the
         estimated useful lives of the assets.

         If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise of a
         purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset.

         The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to note 1 clause 8 for accounting policies on impairment of non-
         financial assets.

      b) Lease liabilities

         At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease
         payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments primarily comprise of fixed payments.

         In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease
         commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement
         date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made.


146      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   c) Short-term leases and leases of low value assets

      The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of office spaces and certain
      equipment (i.e. those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a
      purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of office equipment that are
      considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense
      on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

   As a lessor

   Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset
   are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Initial
   direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and
   recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income

15 Government grant

   Grants from the Government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be
   received, and the Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to income are deferred and
   recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary to match them with the costs that they are intended to compensate and
   presented within other operating revenue.

   Government grants in the nature of export incentives are accounted for in the period of export of goods if the entitlements can be
   estimated with reasonable accuracy and conditions precedent to claim are reasonably expected to be fulfilled.

   When loans or similar assistance are provided by Governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current
   applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable interest is regarded as a Government grant. The loan or assistance is initially
   recognised and measured at fair value and the Government grant is measured as the difference between the initial carrying value
   of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy applicable to financial
   liabilities.

16 Dividends

   Provision is made for any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity, on or
   before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.

17 Cash and cash equivalents

   For presentation in the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, other short-term, highly liquid
   investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are
   subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

18 Earnings per share

   Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the
   weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s
   earnings per share is the net profit for the period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period
   and all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that
   have changed the number of equity shares outstanding without a corresponding change in resources.

   For calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the
   weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.

19 Segment reporting

   Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Core Management Committee
   which includes the Managing Director who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Core Management Committee examines
   performance both from a product as well as from a geographical perspective and has identified two operative reportable
   segments from which significant risks and rewards are derived viz. Automotive business and Investments.




                                                                                              13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l      147
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
20 Fair value measurement

      The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each Balance Sheet date. Fair value is the price
      that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
      measurement date.

      The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes
      place either:

      l   In the principal market for the asset or liability, or

      l   In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.

      The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.

      The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the
      asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their best economic interest.

      A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits
      by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest
      and best use.

      The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to
      measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.

      All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair
      value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:

      l   Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities

      l   Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or
          indirectly observable

      l   Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement
          is unobservable.

      The Company has set policies and procedures for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurement of financial assets,
      which includes valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.

      For fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities based on the nature, characteristics and
      risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.

      This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes.

      l   Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions (note 1 clause 1)

      l   Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy (note 31)

      l   Investment properties (note 3)

      l   Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) (note 31)

21 Other Income

      a) Dividends

          Dividends are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss only when the right to receive payment is established, and it
          is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company and that the amount of the
          dividend can be measured reliably.




148       l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   b) Other income

      The Company recognises income on accrual basis. However, where the ultimate collection of the same lacks reasonable
      certainty, revenue recognition is postponed to the extent revenue is reasonably certain and can be reliably measured.

22 Employee stock options

   Certain employees (including senior executives) of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the form of employee stock
   options (ESOP).

   The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate
   valuation model. Further details are given in note 41.

   That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in share-based payment reserve in equity, over the period in
   which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. The cumulative expense recognised
   for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has
   expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or credit in
   the Statement of Profit and Loss for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and
   end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.

   Service and non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of
   ESOPs, but the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity
   instruments that will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions are reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other
   conditions attached to an ESOP, but without an associated service requirement, are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Non-
   vesting conditions are reflected in the fair value of an ESOP and lead to an immediate expensing of an ESOP unless there are also
   service and/or performance conditions.

   No expense is recognised for ESOPs that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and/or service conditions
   have not been met. Where ESOPs include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective
   of whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions
   are satisfied.

   The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.

23 Treasury shares

   The Company has created an ESOP Trust (the ‘Trust’) for providing share-based payment to its employees. The Company uses the
   Trust as a vehicle for distributing shares to employees under the Employee Stock Option Scheme. The Trust purchase shares of
   the Company from the market, for giving shares to employees. The Company treats Trust as its extension and shares held by the
   Trust are treated as treasury shares.

   Own equity instruments that are re-acquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from other equity. No gain or
   loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity
   instruments. Share options exercised during the reporting period are settled with treasury shares.

24 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures

   New and amended standards

   The Company applied Ind AS 116 – Leases (‘Ind AS 116’) for the first time. The nature and effect of the changes as a result of
   adoption of this new accounting standard is described below.

   Several other amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in March 2020, but do not have an impact on the
   standalone financial statements of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standards or amendments that have
   been issued but are not yet effective.

   Ind AS 116 supersedes Ind AS 17 Leases including its appendices (Appendix C of Ind AS 17 Determining whether an Arrangement
   contains a Lease, Appendix A of Ind AS 17 Operating Leases-Incentives and Appendix B of Ind AS 17 Evaluating the Substance
   of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease). The standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement,
   presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to recognise most leases on the Balance Sheet.



                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    149
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
      Lessor accounting under Ind AS 116 is substantially unchanged from Ind AS 17. Lessors will continue to classify leases as either
      operating or finance leases using similar principles as in Ind AS 17. Therefore, Ind AS 116 does not have an impact for leases
      where the Company is the lessor.

      The Company adopted Ind AS 116 using the modified retrospective method of adoption, with the date of initial application on
      1 April 2019. The Company elected to use the transition practical expedient to not reassess whether a contract is, or contains,
      a lease at 1 April 2019. Instead, the Company applied the standard only to contracts that were previously identified as leases
      applying Ind AS 17 and Appendix C of Ind AS 17 at the date of initial application. The Company also elected to use the recognition
      exemptions for lease contracts that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less and do not contain a
      purchase option (short-term leases), and lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value (low-value assets).

      Based on the Company’s evaluation, the standard did not have significant impact on the financial statements of the Company.

      Appendix C to Ind AS 12 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment

      The appendix addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application
      of Ind AS 12 ‘Income Taxes’. It does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope of Ind AS 12, nor does it specifically include
      requirements relating to interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. The Appendix specifically addresses
      the following:

      l   Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately

      l   The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities

      l   How an entity determines taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates

      l   How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances

      The Company determines whether to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or together with one or more other
      uncertain tax treatments and uses the approach that better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty.

      The Company applies significant judgment in identifying uncertainties over income tax treatments. Since the Company operates in
      a complex multinational environment, it assessed whether the Appendix had an impact on its consolidated financial statements.

      Upon adoption of the Appendix C to Ind AS 12, the Company considered whether it has any uncertain tax positions. Based on the
      Company’s evaluation, the Appendix did not have an impact on the financial statements of the Company.

      Amendments to Ind AS 109: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation

      Under Ind AS 109, a debt instrument can be measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income,
      provided that the contractual cash flows are ‘solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding’ (the
      SPPI criterion) and the instrument is held within the appropriate business model for that classification. The amendments to
      Ind AS 109 clarify that a financial asset passes the SPPI criterion regardless of an event or circumstance that causes the early
      termination of the contract and irrespective of which party pays or receives reasonable compensation for the early termination of
      the contract. These amendments had no impact on the financial statements of the Company.

      Amendments to Ind AS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement

      The amendments to Ind AS 19 address the accounting when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during a
      reporting period. The amendments specify that when a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs during the annual
      reporting period, an entity is required to determine the current service cost for the remainder of the period after the plan
      amendment, curtailment or settlement, using the actuarial assumptions used to remeasure the net defined benefit liability (asset)
      reflecting the benefits offered under the plan and the plan assets after that event. An entity is also required to determine the net
      interest for the remainder of the period after the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement using the net defined benefit liability
      (asset) reflecting the benefits offered under the plan and the plan assets after that event, and the discount rate used to remeasure
      that net defined benefit liability (asset).

      The amendments had no impact on the financial statements of the Company as it did not have any plan amendments,
      curtailments, or settlements during the period.




150       l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
  Ind AS 12 Income Taxes

  The amendments clarify that the income tax consequences of dividends are linked more directly to past transactions or events
  that generated distributable profits than to distributions to owners. Therefore, an entity recognises the income tax consequences
  of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or equity according to where it originally recognised those past
  transactions or events.

  An entity applies the amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2019. Since the Company’s current
  practice is in line with these amendments, they had no impact on the financial statements of the Company.

  Ind AS 23 Borrowing Costs

  The amendments clarify that an entity treats as part of general borrowings any borrowing originally made to develop a qualifying
  asset when substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare that asset for its intended use or sale are complete.

  The entity applies the amendments to borrowing costs incurred on or after the beginning of the annual reporting period in which
  the entity first applies those amendments. An entity applies those amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after
  1 April 2019.

  Since the Company does not have any borrowings, the amendment had no impact on the financial statements of the Company.




                                                                                           13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    151
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                          Gross block (a)                                                 Depreciation                          Net block
                                                                    As at                                                         As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                                  1 April                                 Deductions/         31 March     1 April                       For the    31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                         2019              Additions           adjustments             2020       2019    Deductions          year (d)       2020           2020



Land freehold                                                       19.97                         –                      –        19.97         –            –                 –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                                52.39                         –                    4.46       47.93         –            –                 –           –           47.93
Buildings (b) (c)                                                  932.10                     8.39                       –      940.49      312.94           –             25.43      338.37          602.12
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                    17.36                     0.03                       –        17.39      12.76           –              0.78       13.54            3.85
Plant and machinery                                             1,364.15                    27.22                     29.77    1,361.60     978.74        23.42            61.48     1,016.80        344.80
Computers and IT equipment                                          77.50                     4.11                     0.03      81.58       68.27         0.03             5.66       73.90            7.68
Dies and jigs                                                      778.38                   73.30                    278.24     573.44      554.77       273.54            60.95      342.18          231.26
Electric installations                                              74.29                         –                      –       74.29       68.53           –              1.51       70.04            4.25
Factory equipment                                                  401.00                   22.89                      9.28     414.61      199.64         7.50            25.93      218.07          196.54
Furniture                                                           40.83                     1.55                     0.22       42.16      22.80         0.17             3.33       25.96           16.20
Office equipment                                                    45.26                     2.46                     2.07      45.65       35.43         2.05             3.08       36.46            9.19
Electric fittings                                                   31.81                     1.50                     0.15      33.16       23.43         0.14             1.73       25.02            8.14
Vehicles and aircraft                                              361.31                   28.46                     20.76     369.01      230.35        12.32            40.88      258.91          110.10
Total                                                           4,196.35                  169.91                 344.98       4,021.28    2,507.66      319.17           230.76     2,419.25       1,602.03


Capital work-in-progress                                            11.54                  42.78                      7.78       46.54          –            –                 –           –          46.54
(a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less adjustment towards amortisation.
(b) Includes premises on ownership basis in Co-operative Society H 25.26 crore and cost of shares therein H 5,250.
(c) Includes premises purchased, pending registration amounting to H 15.02 crore.
(d) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.




        Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                          Gross block (a)                                                 Depreciation                          Net block
                                                                    As at                                                         As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                                                  1 April                                 Deductions/         31 March     1 April                       For the    31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                         2018              Additions           adjustments             2019       2018    Deductions          year (d)       2019           2019



Land freehold                                                       20.09                         –                    0.12      19.97          –            –                 –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                                53.04                         –                    0.65      52.39          –            –                 –           –           52.39
Buildings (b) (c)                                                  929.46                     3.12                     0.48     932.10      287.11         0.08            25.91      312.94          619.16
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                    17.31                     0.05                       –       17.36       11.96           –              0.80       12.76            4.60
Plant and machinery                                             1,381.46                    36.71                     54.02    1,364.15     966.75        49.49            61.48      978.74          385.41
Computers and IT equipment                                          77.59                     2.34                     2.43      77.50       63.42         2.43             7.28       68.27            9.23
Dies and jigs                                                      739.01                   57.39                     18.02     778.38      511.60        14.22            57.39      554.77          223.61
Electric installations                                              73.83                     0.46                       –       74.29       66.99           –              1.54       68.53            5.76
Factory equipment                                                  376.79                   26.31                      2.10     401.00      175.63         1.71            25.72      199.64          201.36
Furniture                                                           49.60                     1.82                    10.59      40.83       30.30        10.59             3.09       22.80           18.03
Office equipment                                                    50.58                     5.53                    10.85      45.26       41.96        10.85             4.32       35.43            9.83
Electric fittings                                                   31.53                     0.28                       –       31.81       21.51           –              1.92       23.43            8.38
Vehicles and aircraft                                              648.85                   17.19                    304.73     361.31      450.69       284.45            64.11      230.35          130.96
Total                                                           4,449.14                  151.20                 403.99       4,196.35    2,627.92      373.82           253.56     2,507.66       1,688.69


Capital work-in-progress                                            11.15                    9.48                     9.09       11.54          –            –                 –           –          11.54
(a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less adjustment towards amortisation.
(b) Includes premises on ownership basis in Co-operative Society H 25.26 crore and cost of shares therein H 5,250.
(c) Includes premises purchased, pending registration amounting to H 15.02 crore.
(d) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.




152          l        BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2020             2019



Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                           69.66             69.66
Additions                                                                                                                      –                  -
Closing balance                                                                                                           69.66             69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                            14.16            12.55
Depreciation charge                                                                                                         1.60             1.61
Closing balance                                                                                                            15.76            14.16
Net carrying amount                                                                                                       53.90             55.50

i)   Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2020             2019



Rental income                                                                                                              15.73            15.24
Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income                                                      (0.20)            (0.55)
Direct operating expenses from property that did not generate rental income                                                    –                  –
Profit from investment properties before depreciation                                                                     15.53             14.69
Depreciation                                                                                                              (1.60)            (1.61)
Profit from investment property                                                                                            13.93            13.08

ii) Contractual obligations
     The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property. There are no contractual obligations to purchase,
     construct or develop investment property as at the year end.


iii) Leasing arrangements
     Investment property is leased out to various tenants under operating leases. Disclosure on future rent receivable is included in note 39.

iv) Fair value
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                2020             2019



Investment property                                                                                                      201.20            201.20

Estimation of fair value

The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar properties. Since investment properties leased out by the
Company are cancellable and non-cancellable leases, the market rate for sale/purchase of such premises are representative of fair values.
Company’s investment properties are at a location where active market is available for similar kind of properties. Hence, fair value is
ascertained on the basis of market rates prevailing for similar properties in those location determined by an independent registered valuer
and consequently classified as a level 2 valuation.




                                                                                                    13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l      153
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
4 Intangible assets
  Current year
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                     Gross block                                     Amortisation                         Net block
                                        As at                                  As at     As at                                    As at          As at
                                      1 April               Deductions/    31 March    1 April                      For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                             2019    Additions   adjustments        2020      2019    Deductions           year        2020           2020



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed           29.62       36.76              –       66.38      9.87            –           13.42       23.29          43.09


Total intangible assets                29.62       36.76              –       66.38      9.87            –           13.42       23.29          43.09


Intangible assets under development    36.48       13.93           36.76      13.65         –            –               –           –          13.65




      Previous year
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                     Gross block                                     Amortisation                         Net block
                                        As at                                  As at     As at                                    As at          As at
                                      1 April               Deductions/    31 March    1 April                      For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                             2018    Additions   adjustments        2019      2018    Deductions           year        2019           2019



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed               –       29.62              –       29.62         –            –            9.87         9.87          19.75


Total intangible assets                    –       29.62              –       29.62         –            –            9.87        9.87          19.75


Intangible assets under development    45.32       20.78           29.62      36.48         –            –               –           –          36.48




154      l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                   Non-current investments            Current investments
                                                                                        As at 31 March                    As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                              2020              2019           2020              2019



(A) Investments in subsidiaries
   Investments carried at cost
       In subsidiaries:
              Unquoted:
              1,980,000 (1,980,000 ) Equity Shares of Euro 100 each in
                        Bajaj Auto International Holding BV Amsterdam,
                        Netherlands                                                   1,218.72           1,218.72             –                 –
               449,997 (–) Equity Shares of Thai Baht 100 each
                       in Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                     10.54                 –              –                 –
               411,875 (411,875) Equity Shares of US $ 3 each
                       in PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                         6.17               6.17             –                 –
                          Less: Provision for diminution in the
                          value of investment                                             2.17               2.17             –                 –
                                                                                          4.00              4.00              –                 –


Total (A)                                                                             1,233.26       1,222.72                 –                 –


(B) Other Investments
   Investment carried at fair value through OCI
       In Equities:
              Quoted:
              3,500,000 (2,910,050) Equity Shares of H 10 each in
                        Bajaj Holdings & Investments Ltd.                               629.49            994.23              –                 –
              Unquoted:
                 13,865 (–) Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS)
                        of H 100 each in Yulu Bikes Private Ltd.                         71.50                 –              –                 –
                          Fair value                                                   700.99             994.23              –                 –


   Investment carried at amortised cost
       In Bonds & debentures:
              Quoted:
                        – (200) 8.85% Corporation Bank of H 1,000,000 each                  –                  –              –            20.02
                        – (3,000) 6.70% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd.
                          - Tax Free of H 100,000 each                                      –                  –              –            30.00
                        – (58,520) Zero Coupon Rural Electrification Corporation
                          Ltd. of H 30,000 each                                             –             152.85              –                 –
                        – (1,000) 7.585% LIC Housing Finance Ltd.
                          of H 1,000,000 each                                               –                  –              –            99.55
                        – (25) 8.38% HDFC Bonds of H 10,000,000 each                        –                  –              –             24.94
               350,000 (–) 7.93% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd. -
                       Tax Free of H 1,000 each                                         36.38                  –              –                 –
                                                                    Carried over        36.38             152.85              –            174.51
                                                                    Carried over       700.99             994.23              –                 –




                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l     155
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                   Non-current investments          Current investments
                                                                                        As at 31 March                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                              2020              2019         2020             2019



                                                                    Brought over       700.99             994.23           –                 –
       In Bonds & debentures: (Contd.)
              Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                    Brought over        36.38             152.85           –            174.51
                    200 (–) 7.21% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd. -
                        Tax Free of H 1,000,000 each                                    20.68                  –           –                 –
                 50,271 (–) 8.00% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                        Tax Free of H 1,000 each                                          5.22                 –           –                 –
                820,000 (–) 7.18% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                        Tax Free of H 1,000 each                                        85.02                  –           –                 –
                    575 (–) 7.55% Indian Railway Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                        Tax Free of H 100,000 each                                        5.90                 –           –                 –
                  1,000 (–) 7.51% Power Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                        Tax Free of H 100,000 each                                       10.25                 –           –                 –
                650,000 (–) 8.20% Power Finance Corporation Ltd. -
                        Tax Free of H 1,000 each                                         67.68                 –           –                 –
                          Amortised cost                                                231.13            152.85           –            174.51


       In Fixed deposits:
              Unquoted:
                      – 7.80% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                              –                  –      200.00                 –
                      – 7.80% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                              –                  –      200.00                 –
                      – 7.82% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                         100.00                  –           –                 –
                      – 7.20% HDFC Bank Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                  –                  –      300.00                 –
                          Amortised cost                                               100.00                  –      700.00                 –


       In Fixed maturity plans:
              Unquoted:
           20,000,000 (20,000,000) Units of Axis Fixed Term Plan
                      Direct Growth                                                     23.00              21.23           –                 –
       2,040,182,600 (2,062,000,000) Units of Aditya Birla Sun Life Fixed
                     Term Plan Direct Growth                                          2,026.18           2,196.77     342.76             24.15
          615,000,000 (615,000,000) Units of DSP Fixed Maturity Plan
                      Direct Growth                                                    608.71             666.52       110.95                –
              1,502,631 (2,060,000) Units of PGIM India Fixed Maturity Fund
                        Direct Plan Growth (Formerly known as DWS)                     126.03             204.83        51.94           24.20
          861,000,000 (911,000,000) Units of HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan                   942.67            904.38       34.64             64.16
       1,813,000,000 (1,976,000,000) Units of ICICI - Prudential Fixed
                     Maturity Plan                                                    1,649.12           1,958.49     475.71            219.53
          213,000,000 (213,000,000) Units of IDFC Fixed Term Plan Growth                178.49            233.27       72.68                 –
       1,533,000,000 (1,653,000,000) Units of Kotak Fixed Maturity
                     Plan Growth                                                      1,507.27       1,634.27          257.76           152.11
          170,000,000 (170,000,000) Units of L&T Fixed Maturity Plan
                      Direct Growth                                                    193.04             178.17           –                 –
                                                                    Carried over      7,254.51           7,997.93    1,346.44           484.15
                                                                    Carried over      1,032.12           1,147.08     700.00            174.51




156   l       BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                Non-current investments            Current investments
                                                                                     As at 31 March                    As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                           2020              2019           2020               2019



                                                               Brought over        1,032.12           1,147.08        700.00             174.51
       In Fixed maturity plans: (Contd.)
              Unquoted: (Contd.)
                                                               Brought over        7,254.51           7,997.93      1,346.44             484.15
       1,295,000,000 (1,622,000,000) Units of Nippon India Fixed Horizon
                     Fund Growth                                                   1,099.61       1,408.70            421.03             414.95
         315,000,000 (315,000,000) Units of Invesco Fixed Maturity
                     Plan Direct Growth                                             335.53             339.43          30.86                  –
         802,000,000 (922,000,000) Units of SBI Debt Fund Direct
                     Plan Growth                                                     877.50            847.99          39.51             151.20
          70,000,000 (125,000,000) Units of Sundaram Fixed Term
                     Plan Direct Growth                                               81.06             75.03              –              68.74
         100,000,000 (100,000,000) Units of Tata Fixed Maturity Plan Growth          115.07            106.32              –                  –
         395,000,000 (408,000,000) Units of UTI Fixed Maturity Plan Growth          393.97             428.00          67.84              15.67
                         Amortised cost                                           10,157.25      11,203.40          1,905.68            1,134.71


   Investment carried at fair value through profit or loss
       In Short-term mutual funds
              Quoted:
          34,631,684 (106,322,463) Units of DSP Banking & PSU Debt
                     Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                      61.34            170.84              –                  –
         386,367,631 (567,937,057) Units of IDFC Corporate Bond
                     Fund - Direct Plan -Growth                                      539.47            730.39              –                  –
          28,865,899 (88,329,348) Units of IDFC Super Saver Income
                     Fund - Short-term - Direct Plan - Growth                        125.17            349.30              –                  –
          46,405,849 (126,783,076) Units of Kotak Bond Short-term
                     Plan - Direct Plan - Growth                                     186.15            462.42              –                  –
          62,153,969 (126,178,652) Units of L&T Short-term Opportunities
                     Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                     125.16            231.70              –                  –
          21,129,320 (235,482,214) Units of Nippon India Banking & PSU
                     Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                 31.88            320.23              –                  –
          92,496,457 (92,496,457) Units of Nippon India Floating Rate
                     Fund - Short-term - Direct Plan - Growth                        304.14            278.57              –                  –
         146,141,389 (146,141,389) Units of ICICI Prudential Income
                     Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                       431.12            386.12              –                  –
         449,031,864 (449,031,864) Units of HDFC Medium Term
                     Opportunities Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                     1,036.53            940.08              –                  –
          47,617,832 (47,617,832) Units of Sundaram Banking and PSU
                     Debt Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                152.61            140.03              –                  –
                         Fair value                                                2,993.57       4,009.68                 –                  –
                                                                 Carried over     14,182.94      16,360.16          2,605.68        1,309.22




                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20           l       157
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     Non-current investments                  Current investments
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2020                2019               2020               2019



                                                                                Brought over            14,182.94           16,360.16           2,605.68            1,309.22
         In Liquid mutual funds
              Quoted:
                 559,861 (–) SBI Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                               –                   –            174.07                     –
                         – (726,614) HDFC Liquid Fund - Direct Plan - Growth                                      –                   –                  –            267.26
                             Fair value                                                                           –                   –            174.07             267.26


Total (B)                                                                                               14,182.94           16,360.16           2,779.75            1,576.48


Total (A+B)                                                                                            15,416.20          17,582.88            2,779.75            1,576.48


Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments                                                     2.17               2.17                   –                    –



                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              Book value                           Market value
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2020                2019               2020               2019



                                                                                        Quoted           4,028.26            5,598.53           4,028.29           5,600.71
                                                                                     Unquoted            14,167.69         13,560.83                   NA                    NA
                                                                                          Total        18,195.95          19,159.36
Notes to Investments
1 Investments made by the Company other than those with a maturity of less than one year, are intended to be held for long-term. On an assessment of the expected
  credit loss due to significant changes in risk profile, no material provisions are required to be made.
2 In absence of an active market and non-availability of quotes on a recognised stock exchange, investment in fixed maturity plans and fixed term plans though listed
  on recognised stock exchanges are disclosed as unquoted. Other mutual funds, though unlisted, are quoted on recognised stock exchanges at their previous day NAVs
  which is the quote for the day.
3 Refer note 1 (6) for accounting policy on investments and note 32 for credit risk management related to investments.



6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2020                2019               2020               2019



Security deposits                                                                                            26.25               24.61                   –                    –
Employee loans                                                                                                 6.21               7.02                6.11                  6.34
                                                                                                             32.46               31.63                6.11                  6.34
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally. [See note 38]									




158     l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)


                                                                   Non-current                       Current
                                                                   As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                        2020              2019          2020              2019


Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                             0.02              0.02             –                 –
Interest receivable on investments                                   3.11               –          29.57              9.64
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                            –                –           0.68              0.68
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 31]        –                –              –             65.85
Other advances                                                         –                –          47.31             36.77
                                                                    3.13              0.02         77.56            112.94



8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                   Non-current                       Current
                                                                   As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                        2020              2019          2020              2019


Capital advances                                                  179.80            101.90             –                 –
Security deposits                                                   6.62              6.70             –                 –
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind
    Advances to related parties [See note 38]                          –                –           8.44              4.68
    Other advances                                                 24.33             23.49        103.98             82.20
    Doubtful advances                                               8.14              8.14             –                 –
                                                                   32.47             31.63        112.42             86.88
    Provision for doubtful advances                                 8.14              8.14             –                 –
                                                                   24.33             23.49        112.42             86.88
VAT refund receivable                                              39.78            174.74        135.61             29.51
GST credit/refund receivable                                           –                –         241.02            259.04
NCCD deposit receivable from Government [See note 28]                  –                –              –            342.00
Export incentives receivable
    Unsecured considered good                                          –                –         147.62            205.46
    Doubtful                                                        0.21              0.21             –                 –
                                                                    0.21              0.21        147.62            205.46
    Provision for doubtful export incentives                        0.21              0.21             –                 –
                                                                       –                –         147.62            205.46
                                                                  250.53            306.83        636.67            922.89




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l     159
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2020               2019



Raw materials and components [includes in transit H 90.74 crore (previous year H 53.62 crore)]                          461.44             424.26
Work-in-progress                                                                                                         57.60               46.96
Finished goods                                                                                                          522.78             470.41
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                      20.43               16.37
Loose tools                                                                                                                1.25               3.51
                                                                                                                      1,063.50              961.51

Amount recognised in profit and loss
Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 40.27 crore
[Previous year – H (5.12) crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the Statement of Profit and Loss.


10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                         Non-current                        Current
                                                                                         As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2020            2019            2020               2019



Unsecured, considered good                                                                    –               –        1,725.10          2,559.69
Credit impaired                                                                          28.21             6.74               –                   –
                                                                                         28.21             6.74        1,725.10          2,559.69
Impairment allowance for credit impaired [See note 32 (A)]                               28.21             6.74               –                   –
                                                                                              –               –        1,725.10          2,559.69




11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                         As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2020               2019



Balances with banks                                                                                                     277.24             560.61
Cash on hand                                                                                                               0.09               0.10
Cash equivalents
      Certificate of Deposits and Commercial Papers with maturity of less than three months from
      date of acquisition                                                                                                     –            344.67
                                                                                                                        277.33             905.38




160      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                              Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Non-current                       Current
                                                                                       As at 31 March                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                             2020             2019           2020              2019



Unclaimed dividend accounts                                                                 –                –          30.94             17.43
Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months                              0.02             0.02              –                 –
                                                                                         0.02             0.02          30.94             17.43
Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' (See note 7)                            (0.02)           (0.02)             –                 –
                                                                                            –                –          30.94             17.43


13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2020              2019



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                 300.00            300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                 289.37            289.37
                                                                                                                       289.37            289.37


a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2020              As at 31 March 2019
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      D In Crore            Nos.       D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                     289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020            289.37
Issued during the year                                                                      –                –              –                 –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                               289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020            289.37


b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

   The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote
   per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors and
   approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
   the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
   The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.

c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2020              As at 31 March 2019
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      % Holding             Nos.       % Holding



Equity shares of D 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                   96,727,050           33.43%     96,727,050            33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                           26,281,400             9.08%    25,844,400              8.93%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                               15,730,820             5.44%     13,429,329             4.64%




                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l     161
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
14 Other equity
                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                              2020              2019



Reserves and surplus:
General reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                               4,921.60       4,453.60
Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                          510.00             468.00
Balance as at the end of the year                                                     5,431.60       4,921.60


Retained earnings
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                              16,451.58      14,321.65
Profit for the year                                                                   5,099.98           4,675.18
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
      Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                 (33.19)            (3.56)
Less: Appropriations
      Transfer to General reserve                                                      510.00             468.00
      Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2019/31 March 2018                   1,736.20       1,736.20
      Tax on final dividend as above                                                   335.57             337.49
      Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020                               3,472.40                 –
      Tax on interim dividend as above                                                  713.76                 –
Total appropriations                                                                  6,767.93           2,541.69


Balance as at the end of the year                                                    14,750.44      16,451.58


Other reserves:
Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 32]                                                   5.63             60.31
Costs of hedging reserve [See note 32]                                                 (121.81)           (17.47)


FVTOCI reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                  74.51                 –
Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                        (487.64)             74.51
Balance as at the end of the year                                                      (413.13)            74.51


Share based payment reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                      –                 –
Add: Recognised during the year                                                          10.01                 –
Balance as at the end of the year                                                        10.01                 –


Treasury shares                                                                        (26.62)                 –


                                                                                     19,636.12      21,490.53




162      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                     Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2020                2019



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                125.59               124.52
                                                                                                                                                125.59               124.52
The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. Also see note 31.



16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                           As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                 2020               2019               2020                2019



Provision for employee benefits [See note 37]
Provision for gratuity                                                                                      77.94              12.01                   –                  –
Provision for compensated absences                                                                               –                  –           134.81               118.25
Provision for welfare scheme                                                                                 2.56               2.55               0.52                0.52
                                                                                                           80.50               14.56            135.33               118.77
Other provisions
Provision for warranties                                                                                         –                  –             22.64               21.85
                                                                                                           80.50               14.56             157.97              140.62


Provision for warranties
Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of vehicles sold which are still under warranty at the end of the reporting
period. These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year. Management estimates the provision based on historical
warranty claim information; and any recent trends that may suggest future claims could differ from historical amounts.
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2020                2019



At the beginning of the year                                                                                                                      21.85               18.67
Arising during the year                                                                                                                           17.14               19.98
Utilised during the year                                                                                                                          16.35               16.80
At the end of the year                                                                                                                            22.64               21.85




                                                                                                                       13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                l     163
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                     As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                           2020             2019



Deferred tax liabilities
On account of timing difference in
      Property, plant and equipment                                                  154.79           231.38
      National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD) [See note 28]                             –            104.07


      Employee benefits:
         Defined benefit plans provisions - P&L                                        2.58            13.38
         Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                        0.30             0.45


      Financial instruments:
         Mutual funds including fixed maturity plans                                 360.33           236.62
         Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                1.89            32.40
         Financial assets at FVTOCI                                                    2.57             9.82
         Amortisation of discount on acquisition of fixed income securities              –              8.70
                                                                                     364.79           287.54
Gross deferred tax liabilities                                                       522.46           636.82


Deferred tax assets
On account of timing difference in
      Employee benefits:
         Welfare scheme costs and others                                               0.77             1.48
         Bonus provisions                                                              1.72             2.39
         Provision for privilege leave etc.                                           33.93            41.32
         Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                       22.19            17.58
                                                                                      58.61            62.77
      Financial instruments:
         Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                               40.97             9.39
         Financial assets at FVTOCI                                                   55.14                –
         Amortisation of discount on acquisition of fixed income securities            0.11                –
                                                                                      96.22             9.39
      Other items:
		       Provision for bad/doubtful debts and advances                                 9.15             5.20
		       Taxes, duties, others etc.                                                   12.10            16.80
                                                                                      21.25            22.00
Gross deferred tax assets                                                            176.08            94.16
                                                                                     346.38           542.66




164      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                    Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
17 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Contd.)
Movement in deferred tax liabilities
                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                       Property,
                                                                       plant and   Financial    Employee        Other
Particulars                                                           equipment instruments      benefits       items            Total



At 1 April 2018                                                          254.24       172.18       (80.90)     (22.10)         323.42
Charged/(credited)
    –    to profit and loss                                              (22.86)       93.97        34.11      104.17           209.39
    –    to other comprehensive income                                        –        12.00        (2.15)            –           9.85
At 31 March 2019                                                         231.38       278.15       (48.94)      82.07          542.66
Charged/(credited)
    –    to profit and loss                                              (76.59)      114.90        (2.03)    (103.32)          (67.04)
    –    to other comprehensive income                                        –      (124.48)       (4.76)            –        (129.24)
At 31 March 2020                                                         154.79       268.57       (55.73)     (21.25)         346.38


18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                   2020               2019



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                   0.83               1.12
                                                                                                               0.83               1.12


19 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                   2020               2019



Security deposits                                                                                             24.52              25.04
Unclaimed dividend                                                                                            30.94              17.43
Valuation losses on derivative hedging instruments [See note 31]                                             155.26                  –
Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                                                34.82              28.88
Employee benefits payable                                                                                    172.09             164.81
Other payables                                                                                               130.64             134.81
                                                                                                             548.27             370.97
Refer note 31 for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.




                                                                                          13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l       165
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
20 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2020              2019



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                         0.41              0.38
Advance received from customers                                                                                   254.13            490.83
Taxes and duties payable                                                                                           46.29              37.88
Other payables                                                                                                     28.05              27.88
                                                                                                                  328.88            556.97


21 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2020              2019



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products                                                                                                29,111.54       29,567.25


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                         18.14             21.56
Export incentives                                                                                                 458.59             457.07
Royalty                                                                                                           161.59             128.67
Technical know how fees                                                                                              2.02                  –
Rent [See note 39]                                                                                                 31.88              31.39
Insurance claims                                                                                                     0.48              0.86
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                             72.75              72.71
Government grants                                                                                                    2.65              2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                    59.01             75.41
                                                                                                               29,918.65        30,357.57


Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                          16,895.61        17,722.17
Outside India                                                                                                  12,215.93        11,845.08
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                     29,111.54       29,567.25


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                29,410.26        29,785.13
Adjustments:
      Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                       (184.59)           (154.41)
      Sales promotion expenses                                                                                   (114.13)           (63.47)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                           29,111.54       29,567.25




166      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
22 Other income
                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                         2020                2019



Investment income
Interest income on fixed income securities                                                          17.04               24.33
Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                        18.24               48.21
Interest income on fixed deposits                                                                   28.90                    –
Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                           903.55               829.65
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                            967.73              902.19


Dividend income on investments in subsidiaries                                                    208.99                94.36
Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                      25.38                    –


Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                               462.70               361.19
Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                            19.53                1.92
                                                                                                1,684.33            1,359.66
Others
Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                     5.28               55.05
Tax refunds/credits                                                                                  0.05                9.98
Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                      43.90               14.16
                                                                                                    49.23               79.19


                                                                                                 1,733.56           1,438.85


23 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March
                                                                                                              (Increase)/
Particulars                                                                         2020            2019        decrease



Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress                                                                    57.60           46.96              (10.64)
Finished goods                                                                     522.78          470.41              (52.37)
                                                                                  580.38           517.37              (63.01)
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress                                                                    46.96           26.89              (20.07)
Finished goods                                                                     470.41         434.06               (36.35)
                                                                                   517.37         460.95               (56.42)
                                                                                   (63.01)        (56.42)




                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l      167
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
24 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                 2020             2019



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees [See note 38]                                     1,199.16        1,092.84
Contribution to provident and other funds [See note 37 & 38]                               92.23            90.42
Share based payment to employees                                                           10.01                   -
Staff welfare expenses                                                                      87.81            72.14
                                                                                        1,389.21         1,255.40


25 Finance costs
                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                 2020             2019



Interest expense                                                                             2.10             3.52
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                      1.06             0.96
                                                                                             3.16             4.48


26 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                 2020             2019



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                             230.76           253.56
Depreciation on investment property                                                          1.60             1.61
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                         13.42              9.87
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                               0.65             0.65
                                                                                          246.43           265.69




168    l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
27 Other expenses
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                          2020             2019



Stores and tools consumed                                                                                          130.17            141.28
Power, fuel and water                                                                                              116.57            115.01
Rent [See note 39]                                                                                                   15.74            14.99
Repairs to buildings                                                                                                56.78             45.45
Repairs to machinery                                                                                               125.03             92.45
Other repairs                                                                                                        11.47             6.86
Insurance                                                                                                             3.25             3.04
Rates and taxes                                                                                                       7.49             6.36
Payment to auditor                                                                                                    1.91             1.73
Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                               1.14             1.31
Commission to non-executive directors                                                                                 3.05             2.12
Travelling expenses                                                                                                 77.29             66.63
Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                             424.77            326.73
Packing material consumed                                                                                          375.38            347.93
Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                                    178.08            202.75
Advertisement                                                                                                      488.27            443.22
Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                                         133.44            119.50
Sales promotion expenses                                                                                           115.20             82.25
Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                                     34.50                   –
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                               119.44            112.32
Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                                          0.22             0.58
Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                                       13.70             8.41
Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)                      22.01               1.19
                                                                                                                 2,454.90          2,142.11

Payment to auditor
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                          2020             2019



As auditor
   Audit fee                                                                                                          1.04             1.04
   Tax audit fee                                                                                                      0.10             0.08
   Limited review                                                                                                     0.66             0.53
   Other services (certification fees)                                                                                0.05             0.04
Reimbursement of expenses                                                                                             0.06             0.04
                                                                                                                      1.91             1.73




                                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l      169
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                       2020             2019



a) Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year                                             118.80            111.20
b) Amount spent in cash during the year on:
      i)   Construction/acquisition of any asset                                                                      –                  –
      ii) On purposes other than (i) above                                                                      119.44           112.32
                                                                                                                119.44           112.32


28 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                       2020             2019


NCCD reversal                                                                                                         –        (342.00)
                                                                                                                      –        (342.00)


The Company, during the year ended 31 March 2015, had expensed off the payments made towards deposit of ‘National Calamity
Contingent Duty’ (NCCD) and applicable education cess and secondary and higher education cess thereon, together with interest
and penalty amounting to H 342.00 crore for the period from 1 April 2007 to 30 September 2014, pursuant to an order from the
Honourable High Court of Uttarakhand on 9 October 2014 that the levy of NCCD is out of the purview of exemptions granted to the
Company under the scheme of incentives for industries in certain identified growth areas in Uttarakhand.

In the previous year, pursuant to a special leave petition filed by the Company, the Honourable Supreme Court vide its judgment dtd.
27 March 2019 had held that the Company is not liable to pay NCCD, education cess and secondary and higher education cess; and
set aside the orders of Division Bench of Uttarakhand High Court and quashed the show cause notices. The Company had accordingly
reversed the charge of H 342.00 crore as an exceptional item in the previous year; and had disclosed the corresponding amount in the
Balance Sheet as ‘Deposits receivable from the Government’.

During current year, the Company has received the refund of the said amount from the Excise authorities.

29 Tax expense
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                       2020             2019


(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                                            1,547.26        1,818.59


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                                         9.41          108.71
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                                 (76.45)          100.68
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                                            (67.04)          209.39


Tax expense                                                                                                   1,480.22         2,027.98




170        l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
29 Tax expense (Contd.)
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2020             2019


(b) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                            6,580.20         6,703.16
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year - 34.944%)                                              1,656.10         2,342.35
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                                              15.47            19.44
    –   Disallowance of estimated expenditure to earn tax exempt income                                           6.13             0.10
    –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                                1.40             4.64
    –   Rate difference on account of fair value of mutual funds                                                15.09             40.39
    –   Others                                                                                                    1.81             0.62


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Weighted deduction for Research and Development expenditure                                                  –           (74.24)
    –   Reversal in deferred tax due to tax rate reduction                                                     (81.97)                  –
    –   Tax-free interest                                                                                       (2.72)            (0.70)
    –   Difference in tax rate on account of dividend received from subsidiary                                 (16.74)           (16.49)
    –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                               (6.39)                  –
    –   National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD)                                                                     –           (15.44)
    –   Deduction for profit from specified undertaking                                                              –           (45.30)
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                                      (60.01)         (168.21)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                             (46.85)           (57.70)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                                            (1.10)           (1.48)
Tax expense                                                                                                  1,480.22         2,027.98


30 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2020             2019



a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                          5,099.98         4,675.18
    Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                   289,367,020     289,367,020
    Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)                      99,750                   -
    Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                               289,267,270     289,367,020
b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                      176.3            161.6
    Face value per share H                                                                                        10.0             10.0




                                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l      171
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
31 Fair value measurement
i) Financial instruments by category
                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

                                                    31 March 2020                           31 March 2019
                                                                    Amortised                               Amortised
Particulars                               FVTPL           FVTOCI         Cost     FVTPL           FVTOCI         Cost



Financial assets
Investments
      –   Equity                               –          700.99            –          –          994.23               –
      –   Bonds and debentures                 –               –        231.12         –               –        327.36
      –   Fixed maturity plans                 –               –     12,062.96         –               –     12,338.11
      –   Fixed deposits                       –               –       800.00          –               –               –
      –   Short-term mutual funds        2,993.56              –            –    4,009.68              –               –
      –   Liquid mutual funds             174.06               –            –     267.26               –               –
Trade receivables                              –               –      1,725.10         –               –      2,559.69
Loans                                          –               –        38.57          –               –          37.97
Other financial assets                         –               –        80.69          –               –          47.11
Cash and cash equivalents                      –               –       277.33          –               –        905.38
Other bank balances                            –               –        30.94          –               –          17.43
Derivative financial assets                    –               –            –          –           65.85               –
                                         3,167.62         700.99     15,246.71   4,276.94        1,060.08   16,233.05


Financial liabilities
Sales tax deferral                             –               –       125.59          –               –        124.52
Trade payables                                 –               –      3,199.70         –               –      3,786.73
Other financial liabilities                    –               –       393.01                                   370.97
Derivative financial liability                 –          155.26            –          –               –               –
                                               –          155.26      3,718.30         –               –      4,282.22




172       l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                          Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
31 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy

    This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are
    (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial
    statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has classified
    its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level follows
    underneath the table.

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                Note No.        Level 1      Level 2      Level 3          Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
    –   Short-term mutual funds                                                5          2,993.56            –            –     2,993.56
    –   Liquid mutual funds                                                    5            174.06            –            –         174.06
Financial investments at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
    –   Option contracts                                                       7                 –            –            –              –
Equity investment                                                              5            629.49        71.50            –         700.99
                                                                                          3,797.11        71.50            –     3,868.61


Financial liabilities at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
    –   Option contracts                                                       7                 –       155.26            –         155.26



Assets disclosed at fair value - at 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                Note No.        Level 1      Level 2      Level 3          Total



Investment property                                                            3                 –       201.20            –         201.20




                                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l     173
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
31 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy (Contd.)

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            Level 1          Level 2          Level 3             Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
      –   Short-term mutual funds                                                                      5             4,009.68                  –                –      4,009.68
      –   Liquid mutual funds                                                                          5                267.26                 –                –         267.26
Financial investments at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
      –   Option contracts                                                                            7                       –          65.85                  –          65.85
Equity investment                                                                                     5                 994.23                 –                –         994.23
                                                                                                                     5,271.17            65.85                  –       5,337.02



Assets disclosed at fair value - at 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            Level 1          Level 2          Level 3             Total



Investment property                                                                                    3                      –         201.20                  –         201.20

Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets. Quotes would include rates/values/valuation references
published periodically by BSE, NSE etc. basis which trades take place in a linked or unlinked active market. This includes traded bonds and mutual funds, as the case may
be, that have quoted price/rate/value.
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market are determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable
market data (either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices) and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair
value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is the case for unlisted equity securities,
contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value
Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value include
   l Open ended mutual funds at NAV’s/rates declared and/or quoted
   l Derivative Instruments at values determined by counter parties/Banks using market observable data




iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              31 March 2020                           31 March 2019
                                                                                                           Carrying                 Fair           Carrying                 Fair
Particulars                                                                                                 Amount                 value            Amount                 value



Financial assets
Investments
Bonds and debentures                                                                                           231.12              231.18             327.36              329.53
Fixed maturity plans                                                                                       12,062.96          12,291.04            12,338.11          12,428.55
                                                                                                           12,294.08          12,522.22            12,665.47          12,758.08
The carrying amounts of commercial papers, certificate of deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, other financial assets/liabilities, loans and cash and cash
equivalents are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.




174       l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                           Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management
The Company’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including foreign exchange risk). In order to minimise
any adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward
contracts, foreign currency option contracts are entered to hedge certain foreign currency risk exposures. Derivatives are used
exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or speculative instruments.

This note explains the sources of risk which the Company is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the impact of hedge
accounting in the financial statements
Risk                   Exposure arising from                      Measurement            Management



                       Cash and cash equivalents, financial       Credit ratings         Diversification of counterparties, diversification
                       assets measured at amortised cost                                 of investment limits, monitoring of
                       and fair value through profit or loss                             counterparties basis credit rating
Credit Risk            Derivative financial instruments           Credit ratings         Deal with reputed banks holding high
                                                                                         credit risk rating
                       Trade receivables                          Credit limit and       No. of overdue days, monitoring of credit limits
                                                                  aging analysis
Liquidity Risk         Other liabilities                          Maturity analysis      Maintaining sufficient cash/cash equivalents and
                                                                                         marketable securities
Market Risk-           Highly probable forecast transactions      Sensitivity analysis   Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign
Foreign Exchange       and financial assets and liabilities not                          currency options
                       denominated in INR


The Board of Directors provide guiding principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as
foreign exchange risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of
available funds. The Company’s risk management is carried out by a treasury department as per such policies approved by the Board
of Directors. Accordingly, Company’s treasury department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.

A) Credit risk

Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty may default on its contractual obligations leading to a financial loss to the Company.
Credit risk primarily arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, financial assets measured at amortised
cost, financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and trade receivables. None of the financial instruments of the
Company result in material concentration of credit risk.

Credit risk management

For Derivative instruments exposures are extended with multiple banks holding high credit risk ratings.

In regard to Trade receivables, which are typically unsecured, credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit
limits and continuously monitoring the credit worthiness of customers to whom credit is extended in the normal course of business.
The Company follows a ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. Accordingly,
impairment loss allowance is recognised based on lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date, right from its initial
recognition. Expected credit losses of financial assets receivable in the next 12 months are estimated on the basis of historical
data provided the Company has reasonable and supportable data using a provision matrix to measure expected credit losses.
The provision rates are based on days past due; and the calculation reflects the probability weighted outcome, the time value of
money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and
forecasts of future economic conditions. On such an assessment the expected losses are nil or negligible, as evidenced in the table
below, and hence no further provision than that already made is considered necessary.

However, the Company has a policy to provide for any amount which is outstanding for more than 180 days from its due date (net of
bank guarantee), if they are considered as doubtful.




                                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l    175
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure of the Company’s trade receivables using provision matrix:

                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                   Current                    More than    More than
                                                                   (not yet        0-180       180 days 180 days and
Particulars                                                           due)     days (due)         (due) doubtful (due)                Total



ECL Rate                                                               0%             0%             0%            100%
31 March 2020         Estimated total gross carrying amount              –        1,716.31          8.79           28.21         1,753.31
                      ECL-Simplified approach                            –              –              –           28.21              28.21
                      Net carrying amount                                –        1,716.31          8.79               –            1,725.10


31 March 2019         Estimated total gross carrying amount              –       2,559.69              –            6.74        2,566.43
                      ECL-Simplified approach                            –              –              –            6.74                6.74
                      Net carrying amount                                –       2,559.69              –               –         2,559.69

Reconciliation of impairment allowance – Trade receivable
Particulars                                                                                                                  (J In Crore)



Impairment allowance as on 1 April 2018                                                                                               6.99
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                            (0.25)
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2019                                                                                              6.74
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                             21.47
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2020                                                                                             28.21

For other financial assets the Company has an investment policy which allows the Company to invest only with counterparties having
a credit rating equal to or above AA+ and A1+. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of these counterparties on an on-going
basis. Counter party limits maybe updated as and when required, subject to approval of Board of Directors.

B) Liquidity risk

The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and cash flows that are generated from operations.
The Company believes that its working capital is sufficient to meet the financial liabilities within maturity period. The Company has no
outstanding term borrowings except sales tax deferral liability amounting to H 125.59 crore which are interest free and are repayable
after 13 years from the Balance Sheet date. Additionally, the Company has invested its surplus funds in fixed income securities or
instruments of similar profile thereby ensuring safety of capital and availability of liquidity as and when required. Hence the Company
carries a negligible liquidity risk.
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                        2020               2019



The Company had
Net working capital funds                                                                                       2,343.75            2,188.98
which includes;
      i)   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                              277.33             905.38
      ii) Current investments                                                                                   2,779.75         1,576.48




176        l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The table below summarises the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2020 and 31 March 2019:
Maturities of financial liabilities
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     Less than
                                                                                                     and equal    More than
Particulars                                                                                           to 1 year      1 year          Total



As on 31 March 2020
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                              –       125.59         125.59
Trade payables                                                                                         3,199.70           –     3,199.70
Other financial liabilities                                                                             548.27            –         548.27
                                                                                                       3,747.97      125.59     3,873.56


As on 31 March 2019
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                              –       124.52         124.52
Trade payables                                                                                        3,786.73            –     3,786.73
Other financial liabilities                                                                             370.97            –         370.97
                                                                                                       4,157.70      124.52     4,282.22

C) Market risk

(i) Foreign currency risk

The Company has significant exports and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions,
primarily with respect to the US$. Foreign exchange risk arises from highly probable forecast transactions and recognised assets
and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Company’s functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through sensitivity
analysis. The primary objective for forex hedging against anticipated foreign currency risks will be to hedge the Company's highly
probable foreign currency cash flows arising from such transactions (thus reducing cash flow and profit volatility).

The Company’s risk management policy permits the use of plain foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency option
contracts including Foreign Currency - INR Option Cost Reduction Structures to hedge forecasted sales.

The Company also imports certain materials the value of which is not material as compared to value of exports. Currently, Company
does not hedge this exposure. Nevertheless, Company may wish to hedge such exposures.

The Company uses a combination of foreign currency option contracts and foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its exposure
in foreign currency risk. The Company designates forward contracts in entirety and intrinsic value of foreign currency option
contracts as the hedging instrument. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument
is recognised through other comprehensive income in the ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The change in time value that
relate to the hedged item (aligned time value) is recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’
within equity. Amount recognised in equity is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item (i.e. forecasted export sales) affects
Statement of Profit and Loss. The ineffective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument and any residual time value
(the non-aligned portion), if any, is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

The intrinsic value of foreign exchange option contracts is determined with reference to the relevant spot market exchange rate. The
differential between the contracted strike rate and the spot market exchange rate is defined as the intrinsic value. Time value of the
option is the difference between fair value of the option and the intrinsic value.




                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l     177
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The fair values (Marked-to-market) of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as on 31 March 2020 and 31 March 2019 are
as follows:
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                               As at 31 March 2020            As at 31 March 2019
                                                                             Notional In     MTM Gain/   Notional In       MTM Gain/
For export transactions:                                                   USD Mn (Sell)        (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)          (Loss)



Foreign currency derivative designated as hedging instruments –
options contracts                                                               1,486.00        (155.26)       1,222.00             65.85
Total                                                                           1,486.00        (155.26)       1,222.00             65.85
For import transactions: NIL

Open exposure

The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
                                                                                                                           (USD Million)
                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
                                                                                                                  2020              2019



Receivables                                                                                                      62.65              63.41
Payables                                                                                                         24.20              20.47
Others (EEFC balances)                                                                                           22.33              61.43

Sensitivity analysis

The following table demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant. The impact on other components of equity arises from the changes in fair value of the foreign forward exchange contracts
and foreign exchange option contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              31 March       31 March
Impact on other components of equity                                                                              2020           2019



USD Sensitivity
INR/USD – Increase by 10%                                                                                      (784.79)           (349.24)
INR/USD – Decrease by 10%                                                                                       477.50             766.66

Maturity of outstanding contracts

The details in respect of the maturity of outstanding foreign exchange contracts including options and par forward contracts are
given below:
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                               As at 31 March 2020            As at 31 March 2019
                                                                             Notional In     MTM Gain/   Notional In       MTM Gain/
On export transactions:                                                    USD Mn (Sell)        (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)          (Loss)


Not later than three months                                                       328.25             (7.90)     305.50              22.60
Later than three months and not later than six months                             353.50         (29.44)        305.50              20.44
Later than six month and not later than one year                                  631.25        (105.65)        611.00              22.81
Later than one year and not later than two years                                  173.00         (12.27)             –                  –
                                                                                1,486.00        (155.26)       1,222.00             65.85
On import transactions: NIL


178     l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                      Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Impact of hedging activities

(a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:
Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                               Carrying amount                          Changes in fair           Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal          of hedging               Hedge           value of hedging          item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value            instrument               ratio*          instrument                recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                         11,228.96                      7.53              1:1                  (58.60)                                        58.60
Foreign currency forwards                                  –                        –               –                         –                                             –
                                                 11,228.96                      7.53                                   (58.60)                                        58.60

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                               Carrying amount                          Changes in fair           Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal          of hedging               Hedge           value of hedging          item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value            instrument               ratio*          instrument                recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                          8,450.74                     92.72              1:1                   (47.41)                                        47.41
Foreign currency forwards                                  –                        –               –                 (196.29)                                        196.29
                                                  8,450.74                     92.72                                 (243.70)                                         243.70
* The foreign currency forward and option contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.


(b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance
Cash flow hedge 31 March 2020
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                    Change in the value of                Hedge                         Amount reclassified           Line item affected in
                                    the hedging instrument                ineffectiveness               from cash flow                the statement of profit
                                    recognised in other                   recognised in profit          hedging reserve to            and loss because of the
Particulars                         comprehensive income                  or loss                       profit or loss                reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Forward contracts                                                     –                             –                             –                                Revenue
Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                               (58.60)                             –                       26.59                                  Revenue
                                                                (58.60)                             –                       26.59

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                    Change in the value of                Hedge                         Amount reclassified           Line item affected in
                                    the hedging instrument                ineffectiveness               from cash flow                the statement of profit
                                    recognised in other                   recognised in profit          hedging reserve to            and loss because of the
Particulars                         comprehensive income                  or loss                       profit or loss                reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Forward contracts                                              (196.29)                             –                    (186.39)                                  Revenue
Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                               (47.41)                             –                      (27.48)                                 Revenue
                                                               (243.70)                             –                    (213.87)



                                                                                                                       13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                 l      179
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
32 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The Company enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the
hedged item, so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. During the years ended 31 March 2020 and 31 March 2019,
the Company did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items.

Therefore, no ineffectiveness is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the years ended 31 March 2020 and 31 March 2019.

Movements in cash flow hedging reserve and costs of hedging reserve
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                 Foreign Currency Risk
                                                                                  Foreign exchange Foreign exchange
Derivative Instrument                                                             forward contracts options                       Total



(i) Cash flow hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2018                                                                   6.44              73.28          79.72
Add: Change in fair value of foreign exchange forward contract                              (196.29)                   –       (196.29)
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                         –              (47.41)        (47.41)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                   186.39              27.48         213.87
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                        3.46                6.96          10.42
Balance – As at 31 March 2019                                                                      –              60.31          60.31
Add: Change in fair value of foreign exchange forward contract                                     –                    -              -
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                         –             (58.60)        (58.60)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                        –             (26.59)        (26.59)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                           –              30.51           30.51
Balance – As at 31 March 2020                                                                      –               5.63            5.63


(ii) Costs of hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2018                                                                      –            (40.48)        (40.48)
Less: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                             –              29.09           29.09
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                        –                6.27           6.27
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                           –             (12.35)        (12.35)
Balance – As at 31 March 2019                                                                      –             (17.47)        (17.47)
Add: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                              –            (138.02)       (138.02)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                        –                2.10           2.10
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                           –              31.58           31.58
Balance – As at 31 March 2020                                                                      –           (121.81)       (121.81)

(ii) Other risks

The Company has deployed its surplus funds into various financial instruments including units of mutual funds, bonds, fixed maturity
plans etc. The Company is exposed to price risk on such investments; which arises on account of movement in interest rates, liquidity
and credit quality of underlying securities.

The Company has invested its surplus funds primarily in debt based mutual funds and fixed maturity plans. The value of investment
in these mutual fund schemes is reflected though Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Management Company on daily basis.
The Company has not performed a sensitivity analysis on these mutual funds based on estimated fluctuations in their NAV as in
Management’s opinion, such analysis would not display a correct picture.




180    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                            Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
33 Capital management
a) Objectives, policies and processes of capital management

The Company is cash surplus and has no capital other than Equity. The Company is not exposed to any regulatory imposed
capital requirements.

The cash surpluses are currently invested in income generating debt instruments (including through mutual funds) and money
market instruments depending on economic conditions in line with the guidelines set out by the Management. Safety of capital is of
prime importance to ensure availability of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate return on the
surplus funds.

The Company does not have any borrowings and does not borrow funds unless circumstances require.
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2020              2019



Equity                                                                                                            19,925.49       21,779.90
Less: Tangible and other assets                                                                                    2,165.54        2,008.04
		 Working capital                                                                                                 (436.00)            612.50
		 Investments in subsidiaries                                                                                     1,233.26        1,222.72
Investments in debt and similar investments                                                                       16,962.69       17,936.64

No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes of capital management during the year.

b) Dividends distributed and proposed
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2020              2019



Dividends recognised in the financial statements
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2019 of H 60 (31 March 2018 - H 60) per equity share,
declared and paid                                                                                                  1,736.20        1,736.20
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020 of H 120 (31 March 2019 - H Nil) per equity share                3,472.40                 –
Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
Directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of H Nil per equity share
(31 March 2019 - H 60). This proposed dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders
in the ensuing annual general meeting.                                                                                    –        1,736.20




                                                                                                   13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l     181
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
34 Contingent liabilities
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2020             2019



a     Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts                                                             223.10           453.30
b     Excise, Service tax and Customs matters under dispute                                                           363.71            375.61
c     Income tax matters                                                                                               914.98           829.41
d     Value Added Tax (VAT)/Sales tax matters under dispute                                                           125.37            126.74
e     Claims made by temporary workmen pending before various judicial/appellate authorities in respect
      of similar matters adjudicated by the Supreme Court. The matter is contingent on the facts and evidence
      presented before the courts/adjudicating authorities and not necessarily likely to be influenced by            Liability     Liability
      the Supreme Court’s order                                                                                 unascertained unascertained
f     There are numerous interpretative issues relating to the Supreme Court judgment on provident fund
      dated 28 February 2019. As a matter of caution, the Company has implemented the change on a
      prospective basis.

In all the cases mentioned above, outflow is not probable and hence not provided by the Company.



35 Capital commitments
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2020             2019



Capital commitments, net of capital advances                                                                           176.69            68.82



36 Segment information
Segment information based on consolidated financial statements is given in note 35 to consolidated financial statements, which are
attached to these financial statements.

The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.

The business segments comprise the following:
i. Automotive
ii. Investments
iii. Others




182      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits
Liability for employee benefits has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in conformity with the principles set
out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.

Funded schemes
Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity payments to employees. The gratuity benefit payable to the employees of the Company is greater
of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Company’s gratuity scheme. Employees who are in continuous service
for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to approved
gratuity fund.
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                       2020               2019



Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                                               631.88             554.29
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                       (553.94)           (542.28)
Net funded obligation                                                                                             77.94              12.01


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                              30.06              27.06
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                 (1.00)              4.96
Total expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                             29.06              32.02


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                             50.31              44.14
Remeasurements during the period due to:
    Changes in financial assumptions                                                                              41.23               2.02
    Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                                 -               0.17
    Experience adjustments                                                                                         5.31               2.03
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                     (8.68)              1.95
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                             88.17              50.31


                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                       2020               2019



Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                     12.01             108.99
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                   29.06              32.02
Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                            37.86                6.17
Employer contributions                                                                                            (0.99)           (135.17)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                     77.94              12.01




                                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l       183
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                      As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                           2020              2019



Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                554.29            510.19
Current service cost                                                                  30.06             27.06
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                39.43             37.12
Remeasurements due to:
      Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions              41.23              2.02
      Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in demographic assumptions                –              0.17
      Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience changes                   5.31              2.03
Benefits paid                                                                        (37.95)           (24.30)
Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                         (0.49)                –
Closing of defined benefit obligation                                                631.88            554.29


                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                      As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                           2020              2019



Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                    542.28            401.20
Employer contributions                                                                 0.99            135.17
Interest on plan assets                                                               40.43             32.16
Remeasurements due to:
      Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                        8.68             (1.95)
Benefits paid                                                                        (37.95)           (24.30)
Assets acquired/(settled)                                                             (0.49)                –
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                    553.94            542.28


                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                      As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                           2020              2019



Disaggregation of assets
Category of assets
Insurer managed funds                                                                553.94            542.28
Others                                                                                    –                 –
                                                                                     553.94            542.28




184      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                   Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
Sensitivity Analysis
Gratuity is a lump sum plan and the cost of providing these benefits is typically less sensitive to small changes in demographic
assumptions. The key actuarial assumptions to which the benefit obligation results are particularly sensitive to are discount rate and
future salary escalation rate. The following table summarises the impact in percentage terms on the reported defined benefit obligation
(DBO) at the end of the reporting period arising on account of an increase or decrease in the reported assumption by 50 basis points.

                                                                                               As at 31 March 2020         As at 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                 Salary                    Salary
                                                                                                Discount      escalation    Discount    escalation
Particulars                                                                                         rate            rate        rate          rate


Senior staff
    Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                           (3.29%)         3.37%      (3.34%)           3.45%
    Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                            3.49%         (3.21%)       3.55%          (3.29%)
Junior staff
    Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                           (4.12%)         4.35%      (3.69%)           3.90%
    Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                            4.51%         (4.02%)       4.00%          (3.63%)
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in defined benefit obligation (DBO) in isolation and assuming there
are no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. There have been no changes from the previous periods in the
methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses.
Funding arrangement and policy
The money contributed by the Company to the fund to finance the liabilities of the plan has to be invested.
The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to insurance companies. The insurance companies in turn
manage these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is within the permissible limits
prescribed in the insurance regulations.
There is no compulsion on the part of the Company to fully pre fund the liability of the Plan. The Company’s philosophy is to fund the benefits
based on its own liquidity and tax position as well as level of under funding of the plan.
The expected contribution payable to the plan next year is H 50 crore.
Projected plan cash flow
The table below shows the expected cash flow profile of the benefits to be paid to the current membership of the plan:
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                 Less than      Between        Between          Over
Particulars                                                                         a year     1-2 years      3-5 years      5 years           Total


31 March 2020
Senior staff                                                                          53.67         15.94         63.35       376.51          509.47
Junior staff                                                                          51.01         39.86        123.46       559.59          773.92


31 March 2019
Senior staff                                                                         48.35          14.08          61.92      363.92          488.27
Junior staff                                                                          35.95         33.11         127.71      508.95          705.72

                                                                                                                             As at 31 March
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in years)                                                           2020               2019


Senior staff                                                                                                                  6.78              6.88
Junior staff                                                                                                                  8.61                7.68


                                                                                                      13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l       185
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                         2020                2019


Principal actuarial assumptions (Expressed as weighted averages)


Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                                               6.80%               7.70%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account, inflation, seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand
and supply in the employment market.

Provident Fund
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                         2020                2019


Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                                                                              1,363.48            1,184.13
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                                                      (1,363.48)          (1,184.13)
Net funded obligation                                                                                                                                    –                     –


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                                                                38.39              34.08
Administration expenses                                                                                                                                  –                     –
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                                                        –                     –
(Gains)/losses on settlement                                                                                                                             –                     –
Total expenses charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                             38.39               34.08


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                    –                     –
Remeasurements during the period due to
      Changes in financial assumptions                                                                                                                   –                     –
      Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                                                                 –                     –
      Experience adjustments                                                                                                                        56.28                6.65
      Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                                                   (56.28)              (6.65)
      Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                                                                –                     –
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                    –                     –


Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                                                            –                     –
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                                     38.39              34.08
Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                                                   –                     –
Employer contributions                                                                                                                            (38.39)             (34.08)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                                                            –                     –



186      l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                     Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund (Contd.)
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                               As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2020               2019


Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                       1,184.13         1,047.83
Current service cost                                                                           38.39              34.08
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                         90.55              81.69
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience changes                             56.28               6.65
Employee contributions                                                                         75.13              68.38
Benefits paid                                                                                 (93.22)            (55.59)
Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                                  12.22               1.09
Closing defined benefit obligation                                                         1,363.48          1,184.13


Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                           1,184.13         1,047.83
Interest on plan assets                                                                        90.55              81.69
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                  56.28               6.65
Employer contributions during the period                                                       38.39              34.08
Employee contributions during the period                                                       75.13              68.38
Benefits paid                                                                                 (93.22)            (55.59)
Assets acquired/(settled)                                                                      12.22               1.09
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                          1,363.48          1,184.13

                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                       2020


Disaggregation of assets
Quoted
Property                                                                                                              –
Government debt instruments                                                                                      726.03
Other debt instruments                                                                                           515.70
Entity's own equity instruments                                                                                       –
Insurer managed funds                                                                                                 –
Others                                                                                                           121.75
Total                                                                                                       1,363.48

                                                                                               As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2020               2019


Key actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                          6.80%              7.70%
Future derived return on assets (p.a.)                                                        8.54%              8.68%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment (p.a.)                     6.45%              7.35%
Average historic yield on the investment (p.a.)                                               8.19%              8.33%
Guaranteed rate of return (p.a.)                                                              8.30%              8.65%




                                                                            13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l      187
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Unfunded Schemes
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                As at 31 March 2020          As at 31 March 2019
                                                                              Compensated       Welfare    Compensated       Welfare
Particulars                                                                      Absences       Scheme        Absences       Scheme



Present value of unfunded obligations                                                134.81        3.08           118.25           3.07
Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss                                31.05        0.30           24.39            0.38
Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income                                                      0.09                           (0.70)
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                  6.80%       6.80%           7.70%          7.70%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) – senior staff                                        10.00%          N.A.         10.00%            N.A.
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) – junior staff                                        10.00%          N.A.         10.00%            N.A.


Compensated absences

The compensated absences cover the Company’s liability for casual and earned leave.

Entire amount of the provision is presented as current, since the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement
for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company does not expect all employees to take the full amount
of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months. The following amounts reflect leave that is not expected to be taken
or paid within the next 12 months.
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2020             2019



Compensated absences expected to be settled after 12 months                                                     117.31           102.64


                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2020             2019



Amount recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Defined contribution plans:
      Superannuation paid to trust                                                                                9.77             9.46
      Pension fund paid to Government authorities                                                               13.25             12.41
      Others                                                                                                      1.75             1.62
Defined benefit plans:
      Gratuity                                                                                                  29.06             32.02
      Provident fund paid to trust                                                                              38.39            34.08
      Others                                                                                                     0.01              0.83
Total                                                                                                           92.23            90.42




188      l       BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24
                                                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                 2019-20                         2018-19
                                                                                                                                          Outstanding                    Outstanding
                                                                                                                                             amounts                        amounts
                                                                                                                          Transaction       carried in   Transaction       carried in
Name of related party and nature of relationship          Nature of transaction                                                 value   Balance Sheet          value   Balance Sheet



A   Subsidiaries:
    PT.Bajaj Auto Indonesia (99.25% shares held by
    Bajaj Auto Ltd.)                                      Contribution to equity (411,875 shares of USD 3 each)                    –              6.17            –               6.17
                                                          Provision for diminution in value of investment                          –            (2.17)            –              (2.17)
                                                          Services received                                                      3.54           (1.00)            –                  –
    Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV Amsterdam
    Netherlands (Fully owned subsidiary)                  Contribution to equity (1,980,000 shares of Euro 100 each)               –          1,218.72            –            1,218.72
                                                          Dividend received                                                   208.99                –          94.36                 –
    Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. (Fully owned subsidiary)   Contribution to equity (449,997 shares of TBH 100 each)               10.54           10.54             –                  –


B   Associates, joint ventures and investing parties:
    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. (Investing party -
    holds 33.43% shares of Bajaj Auto Ltd.)               Investment in shares by BHIL [96,727,050 shares of H 10 each]            –           (96.73)            –             (96.73)
                                                          Investment in shares by BAL [3,500,000 shares
                                                          (Previous year 2,910,050) of H 10 each]                                  –          1,111.49            –             909.91
                                                          Dividend paid                                                      1,741.09               –        547.68                  –
                                                          Dividend received                                                    25.38                –             –                  –
                                                          Business support service received                                     26.18               –           1.98                 –
                                                          Business support service rendered                                      0.03               –          12.52                 –


C   Key management personnel and their relatives:
    Rahul Bajaj (Chairman)                                Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)                   10.81           (6.75)         10.63             (6.75)
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                               0.80               –           0.80                 –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                 0.25               –           0.20                 –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                             –             3.60           0.90              3.60
    Rajiv Bajaj (Managing Director)                       Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)                   36.92          (25.02)         29.95            (20.02)
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                               2.95               –           2.36                 –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                 2.08               –           1.99                 –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                             –              1.92          0.90              1.92
    Pradeep Shrivastava (Executive Director)              Short-term employee benefits                                           7.19               –           6.05                 –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                               0.67               –           0.61                 –
    Rakesh Sharma (Executive Director)                    Short-term employee benefits                                           6.82               –           4.99                 –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                               0.54               –           0.49                 –
    Madhur Bajaj (Vice Chairman)                          Rent paid for premises                                                 0.29               –           0.27                 –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                             –             4.40           3.52              4.40
                                                          Sitting fees                                                           0.05               –           0.08                 –
                                                          Commission                                                             0.13           (0.13)          0.12             (0.12)
    Sanjiv Bajaj                                          Sitting fees                                                           0.08               –           0.08                 –
                                                          Commission                                                             0.20           (0.20)          0.12             (0.12)
    Shekhar Bajaj                                         Sitting fees                                                           0.07               –           0.06                 –
                                                          Commission                                                             0.18           (0.18)          0.09             (0.09)
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                             –                –           2.64                 –
    Niraj Bajaj                                           Sitting Fees                                                           0.07               –           0.08                 –
                                                          Commission                                                             0.18           (0.18)          0.12             (0.12)
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                             –                –           0.88                 –


D   Other entities/persons:
    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                                    Purchase of windpower                                                 14.56               –          13.82                 –
                                                          OA charges reimbursement                                               8.73               –           8.05                 –
                                                          Business support service rendered                                      0.43               –           0.41                 –




                                                                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                l     189
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            2019-20                         2018-19
                                                                                                                                     Outstanding                    Outstanding
                                                                                                                                        amounts                        amounts
                                                                                                                     Transaction       carried in   Transaction       carried in
Name of related party and nature of relationship   Nature of transaction                                                   value   Balance Sheet          value   Balance Sheet



    Bajaj Finance Ltd.                             Investment in shares by BFL (150 shares of H 10 each) - H 1,500            –            (0.00)            –            (0.00)
                                                   Subvention charges paid                                                  0.04               –           9.88            0.86
                                                   Service rendered                                                        28.01            0.06          25.68               –
                                                   Service received                                                         0.50               –           0.20               –
                                                   Security deposit received                                                  –            (0.21)            –            (0.21)
                                                   Investment in fixed deposit                                           500.00           500.00             –                –
                                                   Interest income on fixed deposit                                        15.50           15.50             –                –
                                                   Dividend paid                                                            0.00               –           0.00               –
    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.       Insurance premiums paid                                                 17.01            8.44          15.89            4.68
                                                   Claims received                                                            –                –           0.01               –
    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.          Insurance premiums paid                                                  1.18           (0.00)          1.16           (0.00)
                                                   Investment in shares by BALIC (125,000 shares of H 10 each)                –            (0.13)            –            (0.13)
                                                   Dividend paid                                                            2.25               –           0.75               –
    Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.                     Services rendered                                                        0.05               –           0.01               –
                                                   Security deposit received                                                  –            (0.02)          0.02           (0.02)
    Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                         Purchases                                                                0.27           (0.13)          0.05           (0.25)
    Hind Musafir Agency Ltd.                       Services received                                                       20.21             0.16         20.71           (1.06)
    Hindustan Housing Co. Ltd.                     Maintenance charges paid                                                 0.29               –           0.26           (0.07)
    KTM AG                                         Sale of vehicles and material                                         285.23           (25.50)       414.62           (46.42)
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                         –                –           0.16               –
                                                   Purchase of accessories and other credits                                  –                –           2.65               –
    KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH                       Sale of vehicles and material                                         385.95            20.37        382.62          (149.06)
                                                   Royalty paid and payable                                                19.40           (5.51)         13.99           (3.27)
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                       0.24               –           0.08               –
                                                   Purchase of accessories, merchant purchase and other credits             2.89               –           5.03               –
    KTM Southeast Europe A.E.                      Sale of vehicles and material                                            0.45           (0.51)          0.44           (0.00)
    KTM Southeast Europe S.A.                      Sale of vehicles and material                                              –                –             –            (0.00)
    KTM Sportmotorcycle India Pvt. Ltd.            Royalty paid and payable                                                 4.84           (1.27)          8.05           (0.56)
                                                   Services rendered and other debits                                       3.51               –           2.25               –
    Husqvarna Motorcycles GmbH                     Sale of vehicles and material                                           18.24            6.72             –                –
                                                   Purchase of accessories and other credits                                0.06               –             –                –
    Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                      Investment in shares by MSL (6,774,072 shares of H 10 each)                –            (6.77)            –            (6.77)
                                                   Dividend paid                                                          121.93               –          40.64               –
                                                   Purchases                                                                2.07               –           0.31               –
                                                   Sales (including capital asset)                                          0.02               –             –                –
                                                   Services rendered                                                        0.11           (0.02)          0.12           (0.04)
    Yulu Bikes Pvt. Ltd.                           Contribution to equity (13,865 shares of H 100 each)                   55.20            55.20             –                –
                                                   Sale of material/Services rendered                                       0.21             0.17            –                –
    CERG Advisory Pvt. Ltd.                        Services received                                                        0.12               –           0.10               –
    Bajaj Auto Charitable Trust                    CSR payment                                                              0.25               –           0.25               –
    Bajaj Auto Employees Group Gratuity Fund       Gratuity contribution                                                    0.50               –          61.50               –
    Bajaj Auto Senior Staff Group Gratuity Fund    Gratuity contribution                                                    0.50               –          74.50               –
    Bajaj Auto Employees Superannuation Fund       Superannuation contribution                                              9.77               –           9.46           (0.20)
    Bajaj Auto Ltd. Provident Fund                 Provident fund contribution (Employer’s share)                         38.39           (10.90)         34.08          (10.05)
    D J Balaji Rao                                 Sitting fees                                                             0.15               –           0.18               –
                                                   Commission                                                               0.38           (0.38)          0.27           (0.27)
    D S Mehta                                      Sitting fees                                                               –                –           0.04               –
                                                   Commission                                                                 –                –           0.06           (0.06)




190       l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
38 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                                        2019-20                                            2018-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Outstanding                                       Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                                                                        amounts                                           amounts
                                                                                                                                                                             Transaction               carried in              Transaction               carried in
Name of related party and nature of relationship                              Nature of transaction                                                                                value           Balance Sheet                     value           Balance Sheet



     Nanoo Pamnani                                                            Sitting fees                                                                                              0.10                         –                    0.13                           –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.55                   (0.55)                     0.50                   (0.50)
     Manish Kejriwal                                                          Sitting fees                                                                                                  –                        –                    0.04                           –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                    –                        –                    0.06                   (0.06)
     P Murari                                                                 Sitting fees                                                                                                  –                        –                    0.04                           –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                    –                        –                    0.06                   (0.06)
     Dr. Gita Piramal                                                         Sitting fees                                                                                              0.16                         –                    0.17                           –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.40                   (0.40)                     0.26                   (0.26)
     Dr. Naushad D Forbes                                                     Sitting fees                                                                                              0.13                         –                    0.15                           –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.33                   (0.33)                     0.23                   (0.23)
     Dr. Omkar Goswami                                                        Sitting fees                                                                                              0.08                         –                    0.08                           –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.20                   (0.20)                     0.12                   (0.12)
     Anami N. Roy                                                             Sitting fees                                                                                              0.07                         –                    0.08                           –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.18                   (0.18)                     0.12                   (0.12)
     Pradip Shah                                                              Sitting fees                                                                                              0.07                         –                        –                          –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.18                   (0.18)                         –                          –
     Ms. Lila Poonawalla                                                      Sitting fees                                                                                              0.07                         –                        –                          –
                                                                              Commission                                                                                                0.18                   (0.18)                         –                          –
Name of the related party and nature of the related party relationship where control exists have been disclosed irrespective of whether or not there have been transactions between the related parties. In other cases, disclosure has been made only when there have
been transactions with those parties.
Related parties as defined under clause 9 of the Indian Accounting Standard - 24 ‘‘Related Party Disclosures’’ have been identified based on representations made by key managerial personnel and information available with the Company.
All above transactions are in the ordinary course of business and on arms’ length basis. All outstanding balances are unsecured and are repayable in cash.




                                                                                                                                                                                        13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                                      l        191
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
39 Lease
As a lessor:

The Company has given premises on operating leases. These lease arrangements range for a period between eleven months to
ten years and include both cancellable and non cancellable leases. Most of the leases are renewable for further period on mutually
agreeable terms and also include escalation clauses.

The total future minimum lease rentals receivable at the Balance Sheet date is as under:
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2020             2019



Receivable
Within one year                                                                                                 21.58             24.27
After one year but not more than five years                                                                      19.05            40.52
More than five years                                                                                              0.85              1.12
                                                                                                                 41.48            65.91


40 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2020             2019



a     Revenue expenditure - charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                            408.04            392.35
b     Revenue expenditure - capitalised                                                                          13.93            20.78
c     Capital expenditure - excluding building                                                                  53.09             43.22
d     Capital expenditure - building                                                                                 –                  –
                                                                                                               475.06            456.35




192      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                               Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
41 Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 30 January 2019, approved an Employee Stock Options Scheme (‘ESOS’). Pursuant to
the scheme stock options up to a maximum of 0.17% of the then issued equity capital of the Company aggregating to 5,000,000 equity
shares of the face value of H 10 each can be issued in a manner provided in the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations,
2014 as amended. The shareholders of the Company vide their special resolution passed through postal ballot on 11 March 2019
approved the issue of equity shares of the Company under one or more Employee Stock Option Scheme(s).

The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has approved the following grants to select senior level executives of
the Company in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme. The details of grants made as of 31 March 2020 are given in below tables:

                                                                                                                                     31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                              2020



Grant date                                                                                                                        17 May 2019
No. of options granted                                                                                                                 287,636
Exercise price (H)                                                                                                                    2,942.65
Weighted average fair value (H)                                                                                                           827.52

                                                                                                            Weighted      Weighted average
                                                                              No. of     Range of fair    average fair remaining contractual
Total for all grants                                                         options        value (J)        value (J)            life (years)



Outstanding at the beginning of the year                                           –                –                –
Granted during the year                                                      287,636    663.31-974.15           827.52
Cancelled during the year                                                      6,837    663.31-974.15           827.52
Expired during the year                                                            –                –                –
Exercised during the year                                                          –                –                –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                           280,799    663.31-974.15           827.52                      6.63
Vested and exercisable at the end of the year                                      –                –                –                        –

Method used for accounting for share based payment plan:

The Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair value of
options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes model. The key assumptions used in Black Scholes model
for calculating fair value as on the date of grants are:

                                                                                                                      Price of the underlying
                                               Risk free                               Expected          Dividend share in the market at the
Grant date                                 interest rate     Expected life             volatility            yield time of the option grant (J)



17 May 2019                           6.88% to 7.26%       3.51-6.51 years    22.18% to 23.79%             2.04%                      2,942.65

For the year ended 31 March 2020, the Company has accounted expense of H 10.01 crore as employee benefit expenses (See note 24)
on the aforesaid employee stock option plan (Previous year H Nil ). The balance in employee stock option outstanding account is
H 10.01 crore as of 31 March 2020 (Previous year H Nil).


42 Estimation of uncertainties relating to COVID-19
    The Company has considered the possible effects that may result from the global health pandemic relating to COVID-19 on its
    operations. In developing the assumptions relating to the possible future uncertainties in the economic conditions because of this
    pandemic, the Company, as at the date of approval of these financial statements has used internal sources of information and
    market based intelligence to arrive at its estimates.




                                                                                                    13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l     193
Standalone Financial Statements




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)

43 Considering the Company has been extended credit period upto 45 days by its vendors and payments being released on a timely
      basis, there is no liability towards interest on delayed payments under ‘The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development
      Act 2006’ during the year. There is also no amount of outstanding interest in this regard, brought forward from previous years.
      Information in this regard is on basis of intimation received, on requests made by the Company, with regards to registration of
      vendors under the said Act.


44 Miscellaneous
		Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.


As per our report of even date                                                                         On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                  Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                   Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                               Soumen Ray                                         Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                          Chief Financial Officer                              Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                     Dr. J Sridhar                                       Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                          Company Secretary                                     Vice Chairman




194      l   BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
                                                                                                           Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements
To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘the
Holding Company’), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as ‘the Group’) and its associate
comprising of the consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2020, the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including other
comprehensive loss, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then
ended, and notes to the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as ‘the consolidated financial statements’).

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of
reports of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and associate,
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (‘the Act’)
in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group and its associate as at 31 March 2020, their consolidated profit including other
comprehensive loss, their consolidated cash flows and the consolidated Statement of changes in equity for the year ended on
that date.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the
‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2020. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled the
responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our report,
including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements.

The results of audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors of components not audited by us, as reported by them in their
audit reports furnished to us by the Management, including those procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the
basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying consolidated financial statements.




                                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    197
Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
Key audit matters                                               How our audit addressed the key audit matter


(a) Impact of COVID-19 on the Holding Company’s financial statements
    (as described in note 32 of the consolidated financial statements)
Coronavirus disease 2019 (‘COVID-19’), was declared a global    We have performed the following procedures to assess and evaluate the
pandemic by World Health Organisation.                          impact on financial statements because of business decisions, Government
                                                                actions or economic environment developments:
In line with the directions on lockdown issued by the State
Governments of Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, the Holding         l   Performed cut-off procedures for a larger sample of invoices during the
Company temporarily suspended the operations of its                 lockdown period for both domestic as well as export sales.
manufacturing units at four locations from 23 March 2020 till   l   Enquired with the Holding Company on the manner of financial support
31 March 2020; and subsequently upto further dates as               (if any) provided to the dealers, vendors and service providers; and their
instructed by the respective State Governments.                     recognition in the financial statements.
COVID-19 has resulted in restriction in movement of goods       l   Enquired with the Holding Company on any information on the liquidity
during the period from 23 March 2020 till 31 March 2020             position of any dealers; and ascertained the need for any additional
impacting normal business operations for the Holding Company        provisioning for impairment/credit loss in the financial statements.
including revenues, receivables, purchases including services   l   We assessed the disclosures on COVID-19 made in the
and inventories at the year-end and hence considered key            financial statements.
audit matter.                                                   l   Our ability to perform regular audit procedures has been impacted which
                                                                    has required us in certain cases to perform alternative audit procedures
                                                                    and exercise significant judgment in respect of the following:
                                                                    a) Audit and quality control procedures which were earlier performed in
                                                                       person could not be performed; and hence alternative procedures have
                                                                       been performed based on inquiries (through phone calls, video calls and
                                                                       e-mail communications) and review of scanned documentation sent
                                                                       through e-mails, followed up with sighting with original documents.
                                                                    b) Year-end inventory observation of inventory counts could not be
                                                                       performed. However, inventory counts were observed subsequent to
                                                                       year-end; and rolled back to year-end.


Other information

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Chairman’s Letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance and Director’s Report but does not
include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and in
doing so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management for the consolidated financial statements

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial
statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated
financial performance including other comprehensive loss, consolidated cash flows and consolidated Statement of changes in equity
of the Group including its associate in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,
2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are responsible
for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the
Group and of its associate and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair
view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of
the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.



198    l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                         Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of
its associate are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of its associate to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either intends to
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are also responsible for overseeing
the financial reporting process of the Group and of its associate.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
consolidated financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:

l   Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
    design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
    provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
    resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
    internal control.

l   Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
    circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding
    Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness
    of such controls.

l   Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
    made by Management.

l   Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
    obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of
    the Group and its associate to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to
    draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are
    inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
    However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to cease to continue as a going concern.

l   Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures
    and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
    fair presentation.

l   Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
    Group and its associate of which we are the independent auditors and whose financial information we have audited, to express an
    opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit
    of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent
    auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such
    other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain
    solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated
financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.




                                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    199
Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence and where applicable, related safeguards.

From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2020 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Other matter

We did not audit the financial statements and other financial information, in respect of a subsidiary, whose Ind AS financial
statements include total assets of H 1.05 crore as at 31 March 2020, and total revenues of H 2.87 crore and net cash outflows of
H 0.22 crore for the year ended on that date. These financial statement and other financial information have been audited by
other auditors, which financial statements, other financial information and auditors’ reports have been furnished to us by the
Management. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of H 321.51 crore for the year ended
31 March 2020, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of an associate, whose financial statements,
other financial information have been audited by other auditors and whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of
these subsidiaries and associate, and our report in terms of sub-sections (3) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the
aforesaid subsidiaries and associate, is based solely on the reports of such other auditors.

The subsidiary and associate are located outside India whose financial statements and other financial information have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries and which have been audited
by other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries. The Holding Company’s
Management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India from accounting
principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have audited these
conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company’s Management. Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs
of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India is based on the report of other auditors and the conversion adjustments
prepared by the Management of the Holding Company and audited by us.

Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, and our Report on other legal and regulatory requirements below, is not
modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the Reports of the other auditors.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on separate
financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries and associate, as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph we
report, to the extent applicable, that:

(a) We/the other auditors whose report we have relied upon have sought and obtained all the information and explanations
    which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated
    financial statements;

(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidation of the financial
    statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and reports of the other auditors;

(c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive
    Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in
    agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements;

(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under section 133
    of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;

(e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2020 taken on
    record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, none of the directors of the Holding Company, is disqualified as on 31
    March 2020 from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 (2) of the Act. The Holding Company did not have any
    subsidiary or an associate company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India;




200   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the
Consolidated Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Financial Statements (Contd.)
(f) With respect to the adequacy and the operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over financial reporting with
    reference to these consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate company,
    since none of the subsidiary companies and associate company are incorporated in India, no separate report is being issued with
    reference to these consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company. Also refer Annexure 2 to the independent auditors’
    report dated 20 May 2020, issued on the standalone financial statements of the Holding Company regarding Internal controls over
    financial reporting;

(g) In our opinion the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2020 has been paid/provided by the Holding Company
    to their directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. The Holding Company did not
    have any subsidiary or an associate company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India;

(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and
    Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to
    us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial statements as also the other financial
    information of the subsidiaries and associate as noted in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:

   i.   The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on its consolidated financial position of the
        Group and its associate in its consolidated financial statements – refer note 32 to the consolidated financial statements;

   ii. Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting
       standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – refer note 32 to the
       consolidated financial statements;

   iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by
        the Holding Company during the year ended 31 March 2020. The Holding Company did not have any subsidiary or an associate
        company in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003


per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
UDIN: 20089802AAAABS2339
Pune: 20 May 2020




                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    201
Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Balance Sheet
                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                              Note No.       2020             2019



ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment               2        1,602.03       1,688.69
Capital work-in-progress                    2           46.54            11.54
Investment property                         3           53.90            55.50
Intangible assets                           4           43.09            19.75
Intangible assets under development         4           13.65            36.48
Investments in associate of subsidiary     5A        2,950.89       2,666.21
Financial assets
      Investments                          5B       14,182.94      16,360.16
      Trade receivables                    10              –                 –
      Loans                                 6           32.49            31.66
      Other financial assets                7            3.13             0.02
Income-tax assets (net)                                714.81           584.41
Other non-current assets                    8          250.53           306.83
                                                    19,894.00     21,761.25


Current assets
Inventories                                 9        1,063.50           961.51
Financial assets
      Investments                          5B        2,779.75       1,576.48
      Trade receivables                    10        1,725.10       2,559.69
      Cash and cash equivalents            11          285.40           915.64
      Other bank balances                  12           30.94            17.43
      Loans                                 6            6.11             6.34
      Other financial assets                7           87.98           112.94
Other current assets                        8          637.24           923.13
                                                     6,616.02       7,073.16
                                                    26,510.02     28,834.41




202      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                             Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                       Note No.               2020              2019



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                13                 289.37             289.37
Other equity                                                                                        14               21,372.71       22,944.44
Equity attributable to owners of the Company                                                                        21,662.08        23,233.81
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                  0.01              0.01
Total equity                                                                                                        21,662.09        23,233.82


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                              15                  125.59            124.52
Provisions                                                                                          16                   80.50             14.56
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                      17                 346.38             542.66
Government grant                                                                                                         41.30             43.95
Other non-current liabilities                                                                       18                    0.83               1.12
                                                                                                                       594.60             726.81
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
         Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                               13.73              2.65
         Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                       3,186.09           3,784.18
    Other financial liabilities                                                                     19                 548.27             370.97
Other current liabilities                                                                           20                 328.88             556.97
Provisions                                                                                          16                  157.97            140.62
Government grant                                                                                                          2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                            15.74             15.74
                                                                                                                     4,253.33         4,873.78
                                                                                                                    26,510.02        28,834.41
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                   1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                           On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                       Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                        Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                 Soumen Ray                                           Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                               Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                        Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                             Company Secretary                                      Vice Chairman




                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l      203
Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                   Note No.          2020             2019



Revenue from contracts with customers                                                       29,111.54       29,567.25
Other operating revenue                                                                        807.11          790.38
Revenue from operations                                                         21         29,918.65        30,357.63
Other income                                                                    22          1,524.57         1,344.49
Total income                                                                              31,443.22        31,702.12


Expenses
Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                              19,484.62        20,274.72
Purchase of traded goods                                                                    1,586.67         1,579.38
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods     23            (63.01)          (56.42)
Employee benefits expense                                                       24          1,390.81         1,256.89
Finance costs                                                                   25               3.16             4.48
Depreciation and amortisation expense                                           26            246.43           265.69
Other expenses                                                                  27          2,453.89         2,143.65
Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                (29.97)          (30.10)
Total expenses                                                                            25,072.60        25,438.29


Share of profits of associate                                                                 321.51           349.75


Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                     6,692.13        6,613.58


Exceptional items                                                               28                  –        (342.00)


Profit before tax                                                                           6,692.13        6,955.58


Tax expense
      Current tax                                                                            1,547.26        1,818.59
      Deferred tax                                                                            (67.04)          209.39
Total tax expense                                                               29          1,480.22         2,027.98


Profit after tax                                                                            5,211.91        4,927.60


Profit attributable to non-controlling interest                                                     –            (0.01)


Profit for the year                                                                         5,211.91        4,927.61




204      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                      Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                Note No.               2020             2019



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                            (37.95)           (5.47)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                            4.76             1.91
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans - share of associate of subsidiary                          (8.18)           (3.11)
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                         (550.03)           84.33
    Tax impact on above                                                                                           62.39            (9.82)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                                  (221.11)            5.54
    Tax impact on above                                                                                           62.09            (1.94)
    Other adjustments - share of associate of subsidiary                                                          (3.14)          (5.00)
    Change in foreign currency translation reserve of subsidiary                                                182.07          (111.79)


Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                        (509.10)         (45.35)


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                       4,702.81        4,882.26


Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                          5,211.91         4,927.61
Non-controlling interest                                                                                              –            (0.01)
                                                                                                               5,211.91        4,927.60
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                          4,702.81        4,882.26
Non-controlling interest                                                                                              –            (0.01)
                                                                                                              4,702.81        4,882.25


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                                  30                   180.2            170.3
(Nominal value per share H 10)




Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                            1



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                    On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                 Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                  Soumen Ray                                   Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                             Chief Financial Officer                        Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                        Dr. J Sridhar                                 Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                             Company Secretary                               Vice Chairman



                                                                                           13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l      205
Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
A. Equity share capital
                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                   Note No.          2020             2019


At the beginning of the year                                  289.37           289.37
Changes in equity share capital                                     –                  –
At the end of the year                          13            289.37          289.37




206    l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Contd.)
B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                             Attributable to owners
                                             Reserves and surplus                                     Other reserves
                                                                                                  Foreign
                                                                                                exchange   Foreign                       Share
                                                                      Cash flow   Costs of  difference of currency                       based                              Non-
                                      Note    General     Retained     hedging    hedging subsidiary on translation        FVTOCI    payments    Treasury Total other controlling
Particulars                           No.     reserve     earnings      reserve   reserve paid-up capital  reserve        reserve      reserve     shares      equity    interest



Balance as at 1 April 2018            14     5,363.64    14,321.65       79.72     (40.48)         0.25       411.09            –           –           –    20,135.87            0.02
Profit for the year                                 –     4,927.61           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     4,927.61           (0.01)
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax)                                    (8.11)       (3.56)     (19.41)     23.01          0.01      (111.80)       74.51           –           –       (45.35)              –
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 March 2019                        (8.11)    4,924.05      (19.41)     23.01          0.01      (111.80)       74.51           –           –     4,882.26           (0.01)


Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings
to General reserve                             720.43     (720.43)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –            –               –
Final dividend for the year ended
31 March 2018                                       –    (1,736.20)          –          –             –               –         –           –           –    (1,736.20)              –
Tax on final dividend as above                      –     (337.49)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     (337.49)               –
Balance as at 31 March 2019           14     6,075.96    16,451.58       60.31     (17.47)         0.26       299.29        74.51           –           –    22,944.44            0.01


Profit for the year                                 –     5,211.91           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     5,211.91               –
Recognition of share based payments
to employees                                        –            –           –          –             –               –         –        10.01          –        10.01               –
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax)                                   (11.32)      (33.19)     (54.68)   (104.34)        (0.02)      182.09      (487.64)          –           –     (509.10)               –
Total comprehensive income for the
year ended 31 March 2020                       (11.32)    5,178.72      (54.68)   (104.34)        (0.02)      182.09      (487.64)       10.01          –     4,712.82               –
Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to
General reserve                                621.93     (621.93)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –            –               –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                  –            –           –          –             –               –         –           –      (26.62)      (26.62)              –
Final dividend for the year ended
31 March 2019                                       –    (1,736.20)          –          –             –               –         –           –           –    (1,736.20)              –
Tax on final dividend as above                      –     (335.57)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     (335.57)               –
Interim dividend for the year ended
31 March 2020                                       –    (3,472.40)          –          –             –               –         –           –           –    (3,472.40)              –
Tax on interim dividend as above                    –     (713.76)           –          –             –               –         –           –           –     (713.76)               –
Balance as at 31 March 2020           14     6,686.57    14,750.44         5.63   (121.81)         0.24       481.38      (413.13)      10.01     (26.62)    21,372.71            0.01
Summary of significant accounting
policies followed by the Company       1




The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date                                                                                                         On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                     Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                      Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                 Soumen Ray                                                         Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                                            Chief Financial Officer                                              Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                                       Dr. J Sridhar                                                       Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                                            Company Secretary                                                     Vice Chairman




                                                                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                   l      207
Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                 2020                            2019



I.    Operating activities
         Profit before tax                                                                           6,692.13                        6,955.58
         Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
         Add:
             i) Depreciation and amortisation                                           246.43                          265.69
             ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
                 discarded and scrapped                                                  13.70                            8.41
          iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                 22.01                             1.19
          iv) Share based payment to employees                                           10.01                                  –
             v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                        (2.16)                          26.96
          vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                 (15.41)                           2.94
          vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                   (1.98)                          (0.02)
         viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                     1.06                           0.96
          ix) Interest expense                                                             2.10                           3.52
                                                                                                       275.76                          309.65
         Less:
             i) Investment income included in above:
                   Interest income on fixed income securities                             17.04                          24.33
                   Interest income on fixed deposits                                     28.90                                  –
                   Interest income on fixed maturity plans                              903.55                          829.65
                   Profit on sale of other investments, net                              19.53                            1.92
                   Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at
                   fair value through profit or loss                                    462.70                          361.19
                   Dividend income on other strategic investments                        25.38                                  –
                   Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of
                   fixed income securities                                               18.24                           48.21
                                                                                       1,475.34                       1,265.30
             ii) Share of profits of associate                                          321.51                          349.75
          iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances written back (net)               0.54                            1.22
          iv) Government grants                                                           2.65                            2.65
             v) Exceptional item - NCCD reversal                                             –                          342.00
          vi) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                            5.28                           55.05
                                                                                                    (1,805.32)                      (2,015.97)
                                                                                                     5,162.57                        5,249.26
         Change in assets and liabilities
             i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                     (101.99)                        (218.93)
             ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                               828.53                       (1,070.47)
          iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                            398.53                         (167.36)
          iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                        (759.28)                        664.54
                                                                                                       365.79                        (792.22)
         Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                            (0.26)                          (5.84)
         Net cash flow from operating activities before income tax                                   5,528.10                        4,451.20
               Income tax refund/(paid) for earlier years (net)                                              –                         (10.00)
               Income tax paid                                                                      (1,677.66)                      (1,954.34)
      Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                              3,850.44                       2,486.86


                                                                     Carried forward                 3,850.44                       2,486.86



208      l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2020                            2019



                                                                 Brought forward                   3,850.44                       2,486.86
II. Investing activities
         i) Sale of investments                                                     5,178.94                        9,140.38
         ii) Purchase of investments                                               (3,517.96)                      (9,600.95)
        iii) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                       166.96                           214.81
        iv) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                              (26.62)                                  –
         v) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                (13.51)                          (0.37)
        vi) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)          (282.81)                        (163.53)
        vii) Sale proceeds of property, plant and equipment                            16.74                           76.16
       viii) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                (13.93)                          (20.78)
                                                                                    1,507.81                        (354.28)
        ix) Investment income
              Interest income on fixed income securities                               17.04                           24.33
              Interest income on fixed deposits                                        28.90                                  –
              Dividend income on other strategic investments                          25.38                                   –
                                                                                       71.32                           24.33
              (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                             (23.04)                           (8.49)
                                                                                      48.28                            15.84


   Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                               1,556.09                        (338.44)


                                                                 Carried forward                   5,406.53                        2,148.42




                                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l      209
Consolidated Financial Statements




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                     2020                            2019



                                                                    Brought forward                      5,406.53                        2,148.42
III. Financing activities
         i)   Interest expense                                                               (2.10)                          (3.52)
         ii) Deferral of sales tax deferral liability                                            –                            2.79
         iii) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                                  (5,195.10)                      (1,735.83)
         iv) Corporate dividend tax paid                                                 (1,049.31)                        (337.49)


      Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                (6,246.51)                      (2,074.05)


IV. Change in foreign currency translation arising on consolidation                                        207.58                           92.63


      Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                            (632.40)                         167.00


      Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                               915.64                          775.60
      Add/(Less): Effects of exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                                2.16                         (26.96)
      Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                                       285.40                          915.64



As per our report of even date                                                                               On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                         Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                          Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                    Soumen Ray                                           Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                               Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                          Dr. J Sridhar                                         Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                               Company Secretary                                       Vice Chairman




210      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                           Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020
Background

Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged in the
business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles etc. and parts
thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets. The registered office of the Company is
located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 March 2020. The consolidated financial statements were approved for issue in
accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company on 20 May 2020.

The consolidated financial statements include results of the subsidiaries of Bajaj Auto Ltd., consolidated in accordance with
Ind AS 110 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and Ind AS 28 ‘Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures’.
                                              Country of           % Shareholding of      % Shareholding of
Name of the Company                           Incorporation        Bajaj Auto Ltd.        Non-controlling interest       Consolidated as



PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                      Indonesia            99.25%                 0.75%                          Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV          Netherlands          100.00%                –                              Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                    Thailand             100.00%                –                              Subsidiary

The consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV include 47.99% interest in KTM AG as an associate.

1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company

Basis of preparation

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under section 133
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from
time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
(including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value.

The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as 12
months for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

Significant accounting policies

This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

1) Basis of consolidation

    The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries, being the entities
    that it controls. Control is evidenced where the Group has power over the investee or is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns
    from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Power is
    demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, which significantly affect the entity returns.
    The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company. Where necessary,
    adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies in line with accounting policies of
    the Group. For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit/loss for the financial year and net assets is attributed to the non-
    controlling interests as shown in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss and consolidated Balance Sheet. For acquisitions
    of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises a reduction to the non-controlling
    interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid, inclusive of transaction fees, being
    recognised in equity. In addition, upon dilution of controlling interests the difference between the cash received from sale or listing



                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l   211
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
      of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised in equity. The financial statements of
      subsidiaries acquired or disposed off during the year are included in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss from the effective
      date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised
      income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
      Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered. The financial statements of Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. are
      prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial statements.

2     Investment in associates

      Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a
      position to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies. The considerations made in determining whether
      significant influence is being exercised are similar to those necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries. Goodwill arising
      on the acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associate.

      The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in
      an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s
      share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying
      amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually.

      The Statement of Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate. Any change in OCI of
      those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the
      equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of changes in equity.
      Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the
      interest in the associate.

      If an entity’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate (which includes any long term interest
      that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the entity discontinues recognising its share of
      further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or
      made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share
      of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.

      The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate is shown on the face of the Statement of Profit and Loss.

      The financial statements of the associate are prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial
      statements. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. The Group
      has not identified any material adjustments during the year; in regard to the alignment of accounting policies.

      After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its
      investment in its associate. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment
      in the associate is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between
      the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss in the statement of profit or loss.

      Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value.
      Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the retained
      investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.

3     Foreign currencies

      The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the parent company’s functional currency.
      For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity
      are measured using that functional currency. The Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign
      operation the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method.

      Transactions and balances

      Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective functional currency spot rates
      at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. However, for practical reasons, the Group uses an average rate if the
      average approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction.

      Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange
      at the reporting date.


212      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                              Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
    Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss with the exception of
    the following:

    Exchange differences arising on monetary items that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are
    recognised in profit or loss in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the individual financial statements of
    the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the financial statements that include the foreign operation and the reporting entity (e.g.,
    consolidated financial statements when the foreign operation is a subsidiary), such exchange differences are recognised initially
    in OCI. These exchange differences are reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.

    Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those monetary items are also recorded in OCI.

    Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates
    at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using
    the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items
    measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item
    (i.e. translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in OCI or profit or loss are also recognised in OCI
    or profit or loss, respectively).

    Group companies

    On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into INR at the rate of exchange prevailing at the
    reporting date and their statements of profit or loss are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
    For practical reasons, the Group uses an average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates the
    exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised in
    OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss.

    Any goodwill arising in the acquisition/business combination of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and
    translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.

    Gain or loss on a subsequent disposal of any foreign operation excludes translation differences that arose before the date of
    transition but includes only translation differences arising after the transition date.

4   Taxation

    a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
       authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at
       the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.

    b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other
       comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI
       or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
       applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

    c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
       liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
       enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
       asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

        Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
        future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

    d) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets
       against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.

5   Other significant accounting policies

    Other significant accounting policies followed by the Group are exactly similar to the significant accounting policies of the parent,
    Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been reproduced here. Refer note 1 of standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. for
    the year ended 31 March 2020 for details in regard to other significant accounting policies.



                                                                                                    13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l    213
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                        Gross block                                        Depreciation                          Net block
                                            As at                                  As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                          1 April               Deductions/    31 March     1 April                            For   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                 2019    Additions   adjustments        2020       2019    Deductions          the year       2020           2020



Land freehold                               19.97          –               –       19.97         –            –                 –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)        52.39          –            4.46       47.93         –            –                 –           –           47.93
Buildings                                  932.10        8.39              –     940.49      312.94           –             25.43      338.37          602.12
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains            17.36        0.03              –       17.39      12.76           –               0.78      13.54            3.85
Plant and machinery                      1,364.15      27.22           29.77    1,361.60     978.74        23.42            61.48     1,016.80        344.80
Computers and IT equipment                  77.50        4.11           0.03      81.58       68.27         0.03              5.66      73.90            7.68
Dies and jigs                              778.38      73.30          278.24     573.44      554.77       273.54            60.95      342.18          231.26
Electric installations                      74.29          –               –      74.29       68.53           –               1.51      70.04            4.25
Factory equipment                          401.00      22.89            9.28     414.61      199.64         7.50            25.93      218.07          196.54
Furniture                                   40.83        1.55           0.22       42.16      22.80         0.17              3.33      25.96           16.20
Office equipment                            45.26        2.46           2.07      45.65       35.43         2.05              3.08      36.46            9.19
Electric fittings                           31.81        1.50           0.15      33.16       23.43         0.14              1.73      25.02            8.14
Vehicles and aircraft                      361.31      28.46           20.76     369.01      230.35        12.32            40.88      258.91          110.10
Total                                    4,196.35     169.91          344.98   4,021.28    2,507.66      319.17            230.76    2,419.25       1,602.03


Capital work-in-progress                   11.54       42.78            7.78      46.54          –            –                 –           –          46.54




        Previous year
                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                        Gross block                                        Depreciation                          Net block
                                            As at                                  As at      As at                                      As at          As at
                                          1 April               Deductions/    31 March     1 April                            For   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                 2018    Additions   adjustments        2019       2018    Deductions          the year       2019           2019



Land freehold                               20.09          –            0.12      19.97          –            –                 –           –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)        53.04          –            0.65      52.39          –            –                 –           –           52.39
Buildings                                  929.46        3.12           0.48     932.10      287.11         0.08            25.91      312.94          619.16
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains            17.31        0.05              –      17.36       11.96           –               0.80      12.76            4.60
Plant and machinery                      1,381.46      36.71           54.02    1,364.15     966.75        49.49            61.48      978.74          385.41
Computers and IT equipment                  77.59        2.34           2.43      77.50       63.42         2.43              7.28      68.27            9.23
Dies and jigs                              739.01      57.39           18.02     778.38      511.60        14.22            57.39      554.77          223.61
Electric installations                      73.83        0.46              –      74.29       66.99           –               1.54      68.53            5.76
Factory equipment                          376.79      26.31            2.10     401.00      175.63         1.71            25.72      199.64          201.36
Furniture                                   49.60        1.82          10.59      40.83       30.30        10.59              3.09      22.80           18.03
Office equipment                            50.58        5.53          10.85      45.26       41.96        10.85              4.32      35.43            9.83
Electric fittings                           31.53        0.28              –      31.81       21.51           –               1.92      23.43            8.38
Vehicles and aircraft                      648.85      17.19          304.73     361.31      450.69       284.45            64.11      230.35          130.96
Total                                    4,449.14     151.20          403.99   4,196.35    2,627.92      373.82            253.56    2,507.66        1,688.69


Capital work-in-progress                   11.15        9.48            9.09      11.54          –            –                 –           –          11.54




214         l       BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                   Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2020                  2019



Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                                                   69.66                69.66
Additions                                                                                                                                              –                      –
Closing balance                                                                                                                                   69.66                69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                                                   14.16                12.55
Depreciation charge                                                                                                                                1.60                  1.61
Closing balance                                                                                                                                   15.76                 14.16
Net carrying amount                                                                                                                               53.90                55.50
See note 3 of standalone financial statements for the following disclosures in regard to investment property:
i) Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
ii) Contractual obligations
iii) Leasing arrangements
iv) Fair value



4 Intangible assets
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                            Gross block                                                  Amortisation                             Net block
                                             As at                                         As at           As at                                        As at             As at
                                           1 April                   Deductions/       31 March          1 April                        For the     31 March          31 March
Particulars                                  2019       Additions    adjustments           2020            2019     Deductions            year          2020              2020



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed                 29.62          36.76              –          66.38            9.87             –            13.42         23.29             43.09


Total intangible assets                      29.62          36.76              –          66.38            9.87             –            13.42         23.29             43.09


Intangible assets under development          36.48          13.93          36.76          13.65                 –           –                –               –           13.65



      Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                            Gross block                                                  Amortisation                             Net block
                                                                                           As at           As at                                        As at             As at
                                              As at                  Deductions/       31 March          1 April                        For the     31 March          31 March
Particulars                           1 April 2018      Additions    adjustments           2019            2018     Deductions            year          2019              2019



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed                     –          29.62              –           29.62                –           –             9.87             9.87          19.75


Total intangible assets                          –          29.62              –          29.62                 –           –             9.87          9.87             19.75


Intangible assets under development          45.32          20.78          29.62          36.48                 –           –                –               –           36.48




                                                                                                                       13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                 l       215
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                     Non-current investments                  Current investments
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2020                2019               2020               2019



(A) Investments in associate of subsidiary
      5,204,864 shares of Euro 100 each in KTM AG                                                        2,297.02            2,052.61                    –                    –
      Goodwill on above investment                                                                         653.87              613.60                    –                    –
                                                                                                         2,950.89            2,666.21                    –                    –


(B) Other investments
Investments carried at FVTOCI
      In Shares                                                                                            700.99              994.23                    –                    –
Investments carried at amortised cost
      In Bonds and debentures                                                                               231.13             152.85                    –            174.51
      In Fixed deposits                                                                                    100.00                     –           700.00                      –
      In Fixed maturity plans                                                                           10,157.25          11,203.40            1,905.68            1,134.71


Investments carried at fair value through profit or loss
      In Mutual fund units                                                                               2,993.57            4,009.68              174.07             267.26
                                                                                                        14,182.94          16,360.16            2,779.75            1,576.48
                                                                                                        17,133.83          19,026.37            2,779.75            1,576.48
Notes to Investments:
1. See note 5B of standalone financial statements for details of ‘Other investments’.
2. See footnotes to note 5 of standalone financial statements.



6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                  2020                2019               2020               2019



Security deposits                                                                                            26.28              24.64                    –                    –
Employee loans                                                                                                 6.21               7.02                6.11                  6.34
                                                                                                             32.49              31.66                 6.11                  6.34
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally. [See note 33]




216      l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                (H In Crore)

                                                                   Non-current                        Current
                                                                   As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                        2020              2019           2020             2019



Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                             0.02              0.02              –                 –
Interest receivable on investments                                   3.11               –           29.57             9.64
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                            –                –            0.68             0.68
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 32]        –                –               –            65.85
Other advances                                                         –                –           57.73            36.77
                                                                    3.13              0.02          87.98           112.94


8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                (H In Crore)

                                                                   Non-current                        Current
                                                                   As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                        2020              2019           2020             2019



Capital advances                                                  179.80            101.90              –                 –
Security deposits                                                   6.62              6.70              –                 –
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
    Advances to related parties [See note 33]                          –                –            8.44             4.68
    Other advances                                                 24.33             23.49        104.55             82.44
    Doubtful advances                                               8.14              8.14              –                 –
                                                                   32.47             31.63         112.99            87.12
    Provision for doubtful advances                                 8.14              8.14              –                 –
                                                                   24.33             23.49         112.99            87.12
VAT refund receivable                                              39.78            174.74         135.61            29.51
GST credit/refund receivable                                           –                –          241.02           259.04
NCCD deposit receivable from Government [See note 28]                  –                –               –           342.00
Export incentives receivable
    Unsecured considered good                                          –                –          147.62           205.46
    Doubtful                                                        0.21              0.21              –                 –
                                                                    0.21              0.21         147.62           205.46
    Provision for doubtful export incentives                        0.21              0.21              –                 –
                                                                       –                –          147.62           205.46
                                                                  250.53            306.83         637.24           923.13




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l      217
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2020              2019



Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 90.74 crore (previous year H 53.62 crore))                           461.44            424.26
Work-in-progress                                                                                                          57.60             46.96
Finished goods                                                                                                           522.78            470.41
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                       20.43             16.37
Loose tools                                                                                                                1.25              3.51
                                                                                                                       1,063.50            961.51

Amount recognised in profit and loss
Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 40.27 crore
[Previous year – H (5.12) crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.


10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                          Non-current                       Current
                                                                                          As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                               2020             2019           2020              2019



Unsecured, considered good                                                                    –               –        1,725.10        2,559.69
Credit impaired                                                                           28.21             6.74               –                –
                                                                                          28.21             6.74       1,725.10        2,559.69
Impairment allowance for credit impaired [See note 32]                                    28.21             6.74               –                –
                                                                                              –               –        1,725.10        2,559.69


11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)

                                                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                               2020              2019



Balances with banks                                                                                                      285.31            570.87
Cash on hand                                                                                                               0.09              0.10
Cash equivalents
      Certificate of Deposits and Commercial Papers with maturity of less than three months
      from date of acquisition                                                                                                 –           344.67
                                                                                                                         285.40            915.64




218      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                            Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Non-current                       Current
                                                                                       As at 31 March                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                             2020             2019           2020              2019



Unclaimed dividend accounts                                                                 –                –          30.94             17.43
Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months                              0.02             0.02              –                 –
                                                                                         0.02             0.02          30.94             17.43
Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' (See note 7)                            (0.02)           (0.02)             –                 –
                                                                                            –                –          30.94             17.43


13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2020              2019



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                300.00             300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
289,367,020 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                289.37             289.37
                                                                                                                      289.37             289.37


a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2020             As at 31 March 2019
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      D In Crore            Nos.       D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                     289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020            289.37
Issued during the year                                                                       -                -             -                 -
Outstanding at the end of the year                                               289,367,020            289.37    289,367,020            289.37


b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

   The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote
   per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors and
   approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the
   holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
   The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.

c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                   As at 31 March 2020             As at 31 March 2019
Particulars                                                                              Nos.      % Holding             Nos.       % Holding



Equity shares of D 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                   96,727,050           33.43%     96,727,050           33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                           26,281,400             9.08%    25,844,400             8.93%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                               15,730,820             5.44%     13,429,329            4.64%




                                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l     219
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
14 Other equity
                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                          As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                2020              2019



Reserves and surplus:
General reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                 6,075.96       5,363.64
Add: Adjustments on account of change in share of net assets of associate/subsidiary      (11.32)             (8.11)
Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                             621.93            720.43
Balance as at the end of the year                                                       6,686.57       6,075.96


Retained earnings
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                16,451.58      14,321.65
Profit for the year                                                                     5,211.91           4,927.61
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
      Actuarial gains/(losses) of gratuity (net of tax)                                   (33.19)            (3.56)
Less: Appropriations
      Transfer to General reserve                                                         621.93            720.43
      Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2019/31 March 2018                     1,736.20       1,736.20
      Tax on final dividend as above                                                     335.57             337.49
      Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2020                                 3,472.40                  –
      Tax on interim dividend as above                                                    713.76                  –
Total appropriations                                                                    6,879.86           2,794.12
Balance as at the end of the year                                                      14,750.44      16,451.58


Other reserves:
Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 32 of standalone financial statements]                  5.63             60.31
Costs of hedging reserve [See note 32 of standalone financial statements]                (121.81)           (17.47)
Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid-up capital                                0.24              0.26
Foreign currency translation reserve                                                     481.38             299.29


FVTOCI reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                    74.51                  –
Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                          (487.64)             74.51
Balance as at the end of the year                                                        (413.13)            74.51


Share based payment reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                        –                  –
Add: Recognised during the year                                                            10.01                  –
Balance as at the end of the year                                                          10.01                  –


Treasury shares                                                                          (26.62)                  –
                                                                                       21,372.71      22,944.44




220      l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                                                   Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2020                2019



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                125.59               124.52
                                                                                                                                                125.59               124.52
The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. [See note 32]



16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                           As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                 2020               2019               2020                2019



Provision for employee benefits
[See note 37 of standalone financial statements]
Provision for gratuity                                                                                      77.94              12.01                   –                  –
Provision for compensated absences                                                                               –                  –           134.81               118.25
Provision for welfare scheme                                                                                 2.56               2.55               0.52                0.52
                                                                                                           80.50               14.56            135.33               118.77
Other provisions
Provision for warranties
[See footnote to note 16 of standalone financial statements]                                                     –                  –             22.64               21.85
                                                                                                           80.50               14.56             157.97              140.62


17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2020                2019



Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                        522.46               636.82
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                              176.08               94.16
                                                                                                                                                346.38               542.66
See note 17 of standalone financial statements for detailed break-up of deferred tax liabilities/assets and movement in deferred taxes.



18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2020                2019



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                                                       0.83                1.12
                                                                                                                                                   0.83                1.12




                                                                                                                       13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20                l     221
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
19 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                     2020             2019



Security deposits                                                                                              24.52             25.04
Unclaimed dividend                                                                                             30.94             17.43
Valuation losses on derivative hedging instruments (See note 32)                                              155.26                   -
Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                                                 34.82             28.88
Employee benefits payable                                                                                     172.09            164.81
Other payables                                                                                                130.64            134.81
                                                                                                              548.27            370.97
Refer note 31 of standalone financial statements for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.



20 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                               As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                     2020             2019



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                     0.41             0.38
Advance received from customers                                                                               254.13            490.83
Taxes and duties payable                                                                                       46.29             37.88
Other payables                                                                                                 28.05             27.88
                                                                                                              328.88            556.97


21 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                     2020             2019



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products                                                                                            29,111.54       29,567.25


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                     18.14            21.56
Export incentives                                                                                             458.59            457.07
Royalty                                                                                                       161.59            128.67
Technical know how fees                                                                                          2.02                  -
Rent [See note 39 of standalone financial statements]                                                          31.88             31.39
Insurance claims                                                                                                 0.48             0.86
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                         72.75             72.77
Government grants                                                                                                2.65             2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                59.01            75.41
                                                                                                               807.11           790.38
                                                                                                           29,918.65        30,357.63



222     l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
21 Revenue from operations (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2020             2019



Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                           16,895.61       17,722.17
Outside India                                                                                                   12,215.93       11,845.08
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                     29,111.54       29,567.25


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                 29,410.26       29,785.13
Adjustments:
    Cash discounts & target incentives                                                                           (184.59)         (154.41)
    Sales promotion expenses                                                                                      (114.13)          (63.47)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                           29,111.54       29,567.25


22 Other income
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2020             2019



Investment income
Interest income on fixed income securities                                                                          17.04            24.33
Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                        18.24            48.21
Interest income on fixed deposits                                                                                   28.90                  -
Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                                           903.55            829.65
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                                            967.73           902.19


Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                                      25.38                  -


Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                                               462.70            361.19
Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                                            19.53             1.92
                                                                                                                 1,475.34        1,265.30
Others
Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                                     5.28            55.05
Tax refunds/credits                                                                                                  0.05             9.98
Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                                      43.90            14.16
                                                                                                                    49.23            79.19
                                                                                                                 1,524.57        1,344.49




                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l      223
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
23 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
                                                                                                         (Increase)/
Particulars                                                                    2020            2019        decrease


Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress                                                               57.60           46.96             (10.64)
Finished goods                                                                522.78          470.41             (52.37)
                                                                              580.38          517.37             (63.01)
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress                                                               46.96           26.89             (20.07)
Finished goods                                                                470.41         434.06              (36.35)
                                                                              517.37         460.95              (56.42)
                                                                              (63.01)        (56.42)


24 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2020                2019



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees                                                      1,200.76           1,094.33
Contribution to provident and other funds                                                      92.23              90.42
Share based payment to employees                                                               10.01                    –
Staff welfare expenses                                                                         87.81               72.14
                                                                                            1,390.81           1,256.89
See note 37 and 38 of standalone financial statements.


25 Finance costs
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2020                2019



Interest expense                                                                                2.10                3.52
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                         1.06                0.96
                                                                                                3.16                4.48


26 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                    2020                2019



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                230.76              253.56
Depreciation on investment property                                                             1.60                1.61
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                             13.42                9.87
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                  0.65                0.65
                                                                                             246.43              265.69



224     l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                        Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
27 Other expenses
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2020             2019



Stores and tools consumed                                                                                          130.17           141.28
Power, fuel and water                                                                                              116.57           115.01
Rent [See note 39 of standalone financial statements]                                                               16.05            15.26
Repairs to buildings                                                                                                56.78            45.47
Repairs to machinery                                                                                               125.03            92.45
Other repairs                                                                                                       11.47             6.86
Insurance                                                                                                            3.25             3.04
Rates and taxes                                                                                                      7.49             6.36
Payment to auditor                                                                                                   1.91             1.73
Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                              1.14             1.31
Commission to non-executive directors                                                                                3.05             2.12
Travelling expenses                                                                                                 77.29            66.81
Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                            423.45            327.80
Packing material consumed                                                                                         375.38            347.93
Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                                   178.08            202.75
Advertisement                                                                                                     488.27            443.22
Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                                        133.44            119.50
Sales promotion expenses                                                                                           115.20            82.25
Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                                     34.50                  -
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                               119.44           112.32
Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                                         0.22             0.58
Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                                      13.70             8.41
Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)                      22.01              1.19
                                                                                                                 2,453.89        2,143.65




                                                                                                 13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l      225
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
28 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                       2020             2019



NCCD reversal                                                                                                         –        (342.00)
                                                                                                                      –        (342.00)



The Company, during the year ended 31 March 2015, had expensed off the payments made towards deposit of ‘National Calamity
Contingent Duty’ (NCCD) and applicable education cess and secondary and higher education cess thereon, together with interest
and penalty amounting to H 342.00 crore for the period from 1 April 2007 to 30 September 2014, pursuant to an order from the
Honourable High Court of Uttarakhand on 9 October 2014 that the levy of NCCD is out of the purview of exemptions granted to the
Company under the scheme of incentives for industries in certain identified growth areas in Uttarakhand.

In the previous year, pursuant to a special leave petition filed by the Company, the Honourable Supreme Court vide its judgment
dated 27 March 2019 had held that the Company is not liable to pay NCCD, education cess and secondary and higher education
cess; and set aside the orders of Division Bench of Uttarakhand High Court and quashed the show cause notices. The Company had
accordingly reversed the charge of H 342.00 crore as an exceptional item in the previous year; and had disclosed the corresponding
amount in the Balance Sheet as ‘Deposits receivable from the Government’.

During current year, the Company has received the refund of the said amount from the Excise authorities.




226   l       BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                     Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
29 Tax expense
                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                      2020             2019



(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                                           1,547.26        1,818.59


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                                        9.41           108.71
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                                (76.45)           100.68
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                                            (67.04)          209.39


Tax expense                                                                                                   1,480.22        2,027.98


(b) Reconciliation of tax expenses and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                             6,901.17        6,955.58
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year - 34.944%)                                               1,768.26        2,430.56
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    – Corporate social responsibility expenditure                                                                15.47            19.44
    – Disallowance of estimated expenditure to earn tax exempt income                                             6.13             0.10
    – Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                                  1.40             4.64
    – Rate difference on account of fair value of mutual funds                                                   15.09            40.39
    – Others                                                                                                      1.81             0.62


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    – Weighted deduction for Research and Development expenditure                                                    –           (74.24)
    –   Profits of subsidiaries not taxable in India                                                           (112.16)          (88.21)
    – Reversal in deferred tax due to tax rate reduction                                                        (81.97)                 –
    –   Tax-free interest                                                                                        (2.72)           (0.70)
    –   Difference in tax rate on account of dividend received from subsidiary                                  (16.74)          (16.49)
    –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                                (6.39)                 –
    –   National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD)                                                                     –           (15.44)
    –   Deduction for profit from specified undertaking                                                              –           (45.30)
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                                      (60.01)        (168.21)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                             (46.85)           (57.70)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                                            (1.10)           (1.48)
Tax expense                                                                                                   1,480.22        2,027.98




                                                                                              13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l      227
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
30 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                          2020            2019



a     Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                            5,211.91        4,927.61
      Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                     289,367,020     289,367,020
      Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)                        99,750                   –
      Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                 289,267,270     289,367,020
b     Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                      180.2            170.3
      Face value per share H                                                                                          10.0            10.0


31 Notes to these consolidated financial statements are intended to serve as a means of informative disclosure and a guide to better
      understanding of the consolidated position of the companies. Recognising this purpose, the Company has disclosed only such
      notes from the individual financial statements, which fairly present the needed disclosures.

32 Other disclosures
Other notes and disclosures to be inserted in the consolidated financial statements are similar to those of standalone financial
statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been repeated here.							

The relevant note references in the standalone financial statements are given below:
Particulars                                                              Note Reference of standalone financial statements



Fair value measurement                                                   Note 31
Financial risk management                                                Note 32
Capital management                                                       Note 33 (a)
Dividends distributed and proposed                                       Note 33 (b)
Contingent liabilities                                                   Note 34
Capital commitments                                                      Note 35
Employee benefits                                                        Note 37
Lease                                                                    Note 39
Research and Development                                                 Note 40
Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)                       Note 41
Estimation of uncertainties relating to COVID-19                         Note 42
Dues to micro, small and medium enterprises                              Note 43

There are no changes arising out of inclusion of the subsidiaries/associate amounts in the above disclosures.

33 Consolidated related party transactions are same as related party transactions of standalone Bajaj Auto Ltd.




228      l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                           Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
34 Investment in an associate
The Group has a 47.99% interest in KTM AG, Austria which is engaged in the development, production and distribution of motorised
vehicles under the ‘KTM’ and ‘Husqvarna’ brands; and holds equity interests in other entities engaging in development, production
and distribution of such equipment. Major sale markets include the USA, Germany, France, Australia, the UK, Italy, Spain, Canada,
Austria, Argentina and other European countries.

KTM AG is a private entity that is not listed on any public exchange. The Group’s interest is in KTM AG.

The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in KTM AG (in Euro, which is its
functional currency):


                                                                                                                               Euro in Million
Particulars                                                                                     31 December 2019          31 December 2018



Current assets                                                                                                  661.61                 569.82
Non-current assets                                                                                             830.60                  732.03
Current liabilities                                                                                            340.30                  356.85
Non-current liabilities                                                                                        546.00                  394.30
Equity                                                                                                         605.91                  550.70


Revenue                                                                                                       1,512.88             1,454.75
Cost of sales                                                                                                (1,072.41)           (1,039.43)
Gross profit                                                                                                   440.47                  415.32
Selling and racing expenses                                                                                   (215.32)              (187.90)
Research and development expenses                                                                               (19.93)                (22.51)
Infrastructure and administration expenses                                                                     (82.81)                 (70.90)
Other operating expenses                                                                                         (1.42)                 (0.74)
Other operating income                                                                                            1.02                   0.64
Share of profit of associates                                                                                    (0.72)                 (4.71)
Result from operating activities                                                                               121.29                  129.20
Interest income                                                                                                   2.89                   3.08
Interest expenses                                                                                               (14.96)                (13.83)
Other financial result                                                                                           (0.41)                 (1.81)
Profit before tax                                                                                              108.81                  116.64
Tax expense                                                                                                     (24.16)                (26.87)
Profit for the year (continuing operations)                                                                     84.65                   89.77
Total comprehensive income for the year (continuing operations)                                                 82.82                   87.31
The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments.




                                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20          l      229
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
35 Segment information
Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2020
The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.
                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                                            Automotive         Investments    Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                                             29,967.88        1,475.34      31,443.22
Inter segment sales and other income                                                                –                –                –
Total revenue                                                                            29,967.88           1,475.34      31,443.22
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 29,111.54 crore


Segment result                                                                               5,223.23         1,472.06       6,695.29
Finance costs                                                                                     3.16               –            3.16
Tax expense                                                                                         –                –       1,480.22
Non-controlling interest                                                                            –                –                –
Profit for the year                                                                          5,220.07        1,472.06       5,211.91

Segment assets                                                                               5,795.03        17,049.29      22,844.32
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                       2,950.89                –       2,950.89
Unallocated corporate assets                                                                        –                –         714.81
Total assets                                                                                 8,745.92       17,049.29      26,510.02

Segment liabilities                                                                          4,316.27                –       4,316.27
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                                   –                –           15.74
Total liabilities                                                                            4,316.27                –      4,332.01

Capital employed                                                                             4,429.65       17,049.29      22,178.01

Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                           4,332.01
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
		 Sales tax deferral                                                                                                          125.59
		 Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                    346.38
		 Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                                    43.95
Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                                      4,847.93

Capital expenditure                                                                            169.91                –         169.91
Depreciation and write downs                                                                   246.43                –         246.43
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                                       22.01                –           22.01

(b) Geographic segment
Particulars                                                                          India      Rest of the world        Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                                 19,227.29               12,215.93          31,443.22
Segment assets                                                                  23,025.44                3,484.58           26,510.02
Capital expenditure                                                                 169.91                      –               169.91




230     l     BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                             Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
35 Segment information (Contd.)
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2019
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                                 Automotive          Investments     Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                              30,436.82             1,265.30        31,702.12
Inter segment sales and other income                                                     -                  -                  -
Total revenue                                                                 30,436.82             1,265.30       31,702.12
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers: H 29,567.25 crore


Segment result                                                                    5,697.47          1,262.59         6,960.06
Finance costs                                                                         4.48                  -              4.48
Tax expense                                                                              -                  -        2,027.98
Non-controlling interest                                                                 -                  -             (0.01)
Profit for the year                                                               5,692.99          1,262.59         4,927.61

Segment assets                                                                    7,237.32         18,346.47        25,583.79
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                            2,666.21                  -        2,666.21
Unallocated corporate assets                                                             -                  -            584.41
Total assets                                                                      9,903.53        18,346.47        28,834.41

Segment liabilities                                                               4,871.07                  -        4,871.07
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                        -                  -             15.74
Total liabilities                                                                 4,871.07                  -        4,886.81

Capital employed                                                                  5,032.46        18,346.47        23,947.60

Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                   4,886.81
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
		 Sales tax deferral                                                                                                    124.52
		 Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                              542.66
		 Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                             46.60
Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                               5,600.59

Capital expenditure                                                                 151.20                  -            151.20
Depreciation and write downs                                                        265.69                  -            265.69
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                             1.19                  -              1.19

(b) Geographic segment
Particulars                                                               India      Rest of the world          Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                      19,856.68               11,845.44             31,702.12
Segment assets                                                        25,681.92                 3,152.49            28,834.41
Capital expenditure                                                      147.29                     3.91                 151.20




                                                                                  13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20         l     231
Consolidated Financial Statements




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020 (Contd.)
36 Disclosure in terms of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
                                             Net Assets (i.e. Total assets                                                  Share in other                           Share in total
                                               minus total liabilities)            Share in Profit or (Loss)             comprehensive income                    comprehensive income
                                                  As a % of                           As a % of                    As a % of consolidated                  As a % of consolidated
                                               consolidated          Amount        consolidated         Amount      other comprehensive         Amount      total comprehensive         Amount
Particulars                                      net assets      (J In Crore)      profit or loss   (J In Crore)                  income    (J In Crore)                  income    (J In Crore)



1. Parent:
   Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                   91.98%       19,925.49              97.85%        5,099.98                 133.54%        (679.85)                   93.99%       4,420.13


2. Subsidiaries (Foreign):
   PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                 –            1.02                   –           0.25                   (0.03%)          0.15                    0.01%           0.40
   Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV              13.66%         2,958.47              6.15%         320.72                  (13.76%)          70.06                    8.31%        390.78
   Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                          0.05%           10.37                   –          (0.05)                       –              –                        –          (0.05)
   Add/(Less): Non-controlling interest in
   all subsidiaries                                        –           (0.01)                  –               –                       –              –                        –              –
   Add/(Less): Inter-company eliminations            (5.69%)      (1,233.26)             (4.00%)       (208.99)                 (19.75%)        100.54                    (2.31%)      (108.45)
Total                                               100.00%       21,662.08            100.00%        5,211.91                  100.00%        (509.10)                 100.00%       4,702.81



37 Miscellaneous
      Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.


As per our report of even date                                                                                                                 On behalf of the Board of Directors


For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                                                                Rahul Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                                                                 Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003

                                                                                     Soumen Ray                                                                Rajiv Bajaj
per Arvind Sethi                                                                Chief Financial Officer                                                     Managing Director
Partner
Membership Number: 89802                                                           Dr. J Sridhar                                                              Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                                                Company Secretary                                                            Vice Chairman




232       l      BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                                             Consolidated Financial Statements




Salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2020
Form AOC-1

In accordance with section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the salient features of the financial statements of
subsidiaries is given below:
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Bajaj Auto
                                                                                                        International
                                                                              PT. Bajaj Auto            Holdings BV.                 Bajaj Auto
Particulars                                                                       Indonesia           (Consolidated)             (Thailand) Ltd.



a   The date since when subsidiary was acquired                           20 February 2008         20 February 2008           20 December 2019
                                                                         (being the effective     (being the effective
                                                                        date of demerger of      date of demerger of
                                                                              erstwhile BAL)           erstwhile BAL)
b   Reporting period for the subsidiary                                       1 April 2019 to         1 April 2019 to      20 December 2019 to
                                                                              31 March 2020           31 March 2020          31 December 2019
c   Reporting currency as on the last date of the relevant                   IDR (Indonesian                     Euro            THB (Thai Baht)
    financial year in the case of foreign subsidiaries                               Rupiah)
d   Exchange rate as on the last date of the relevant financial           1 USD = IDR 16367          1 Euro = H 82.77       1 USD = THB 32.6712
    year in the case of foreign subsidiaries                              1 USD = H 75.6650                                    1 USD = H 75.6650
e   Share capital                                                                        5.38                1,638.85                         10.42
f   Reserves and surplus                                                                (4.36)               1,319.62                         (0.05)
g   Total assets                                                                         1.05                2,958.51                         10.42
h   Total liabilities                                                                    1.05                2,958.51                         10.42
i   Investments                                                                             –                2,297.02                              –
j   Turnover                                                                             2.87                       –                              –
k   Profit before tax                                                                    0.25                 320.72                         (0.05)
l   Provision for tax                                                                       –                       –                              –
m Profit after tax                                                                       0.25                 320.72                         (0.05)
n   Proposed dividend                                                                       –                       –                              –
o   % of shareholding                                                                  99.25%                100.00%                      100.00%



                                                                                                           On behalf of the Board of Directors


                                                                                                                          Rahul Bajaj
                                                                                                                           Chairman

                                                                  Soumen Ray                                           Rajiv Bajaj
                                                             Chief Financial Officer                                Managing Director

                                                                Dr. J Sridhar                                            Madhur Bajaj
Pune: 20 May 2020                                             Company Secretary                                          Vice Chairman




                                                                                                   13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20            l      233
NOTES
                                                                                        Business Responsibility Report




BUSINESS
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT

Section A   General information about the Company



   1        Corporate Identification Number                    L65993PN2007PLC130076
   2        Name of the Company                                Bajaj Auto Limited
   3        Registered Address                                 Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035
   4        Website                                            www.bajajauto.com
   5        Email Address                                      brr.response@bajajauto.co.in
   6        Financial year reported                            1 April 2019 – 31 March 2020
   7        Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in           Automobile
   8        Three key products/services manufactured/          Motorcycles and three & four wheeler
            provided by the Company                            vehicles
   9        Total number of locations where business           Akurdi, Chakan & Waluj (Maharashtra) and
            activity is undertaken by the Company              Pantnagar (Uttarakhand)
   10       Markets served by the Company                      India and 79 countries across the world


Section B   Financial details of the Company



   1        Paid up capital                                    H 289 crore
   2        Total turnover                                     H 31,652 crore
   3        Total profit after tax                             H 5,100 crore
   4        Total spending on CSR as percentage of PAT (%) Refer Annual Report on CSR activities
   5        List of the activities in which expenditure in 4   Refer Annual Report on CSR activities
            above has been incurred




                                                                                13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20     l    1
Business Responsibility Report




              Section C       Other details



                  1           Does the Company have any subsidiary               Yes (for details, refer Note 1 of Consolidated
                              company/companies?                                 Financial Statements)
                  2           Do the subsidiary company/companies                No
                              participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent
                              company? If yes, then indicate the number of
                              such subsidiary company(s)
                  3           Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers,      No
                              distributors etc.) that the Company does
                              business with, participate in the BR initiatives
                              of the Company? If yes, then indicate the
                              percentage of such entity/entities? [Less than
                              30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]


              Section D       BR information



                  1           Details of Director(s) responsible for BR
                          (a) Details of the Director/Directors responsible
                              for implementation of the BR policy/policies:
                              DIN Number                                         07464437
                              Name                                               Mr. Pradeep Shrivastava
                              Designation                                        Executive Director
                          (b) Details of the BR head:
                              DIN Number (if applicable)                         Not applicable
                              Name                                               Mr. Soumen Ray
                              Designation                                        CFO
                              Telephone number                                   (020) 6610 6000
                              E-mail ID                                          soumenray@bajajauto.co.in
                  2           Principle-wise BR policy/policies                  Included in this report
                  3           Governance related to BR                           Included in this report


              Section E       Principle-wise performance



                  1           Principle-wise performance                         Included in this report




2   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                               Business Responsibility Report




PREFACE
As mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), India’s
top 1000 listed entities based on market capitalisation on the BSE and NSE,
are required to submit a ‘Business Responsibility Report’ (BRR) along with
their Annual Report for FY 2019-20. This Report is required to be in line
with ‘National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic
Responsibilities of Business’ (NVGs), as released by the Ministry of
Corporate Affairs in July 2011.


Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘BAL’ or ‘the Company’), to whom the said requirement is
applicable, presents its eighth BRR in line with the NVGs and the BRR
requirement of SEBI. This Report provides information on key business
responsibility initiatives undertaken by the Company. The business
responsibility performance of the Company is assessed annually by BAL’s
Board of Directors.




                                                      13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20      l    3
Business Responsibility Report




             PRINCIPLE 1

                       Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with
                       Ethics, Transparency and Accountability

           The three pillars of trust, integrity and credibility drive BAL’s business philosophy, which is built on the
           key foundational values of ethics, transparency and accountability. In order to make sure that these
           principles are upheld, BAL adopted a Company-wide ‘Code of Conduct’ (CoC) in 2009. This CoC highlights
           integrity and good working norms, as well as the process to address any violations. The CoC covers an
           exhaustive list of topics, including anti-bribery, anti-corruption, the prevention of sexual harassment at
           the work place, and other similar laws of the various jurisdictions where the Company operates. BAL is
           committed towards ensuring corruption free operations and the CoC contains clear guidelines to ensure
           the same. The CoC requirements are applicable to every BAL employee globally and employees are
           familiarized with it during their induction process. The CoC is periodically reviewed and updated to align
           it with laws, organisation structure and any other changes that may have an impact on the contents of
           the CoC.

           With the aim of enabling employees to raise concerns to the Company’s Management, the CoC also
           contains a ‘Grievance Redressal Policy’ and a ‘Whistle Blower Policy’. No complaints were received with
           respect to the above two policies in this year. The Company is in the process of establishing an ethics
           helpline, which will strengthen the governance mechanism, whistle-blower policy and employee
           grievance redressal process.

            In addition to these, there is a separate CoC that is specifically applicable to the Company’s Directors
           and Senior Management. It reiterates that ‘Directors and Senior Managers shall observe the highest
           standards of ethical conduct and integrity and shall work to the best of their ability and judgment’. All
           Directors and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance with this CoC. The Annual
           Report contains a declaration to this effect that is signed by the Managing Director.

           BAL is an industry partner of the World Economic Forum’s initiative, ‘Partnership Against Corruption
           Initiative’ (PACI). In addition, the Company is also signatory to the Model Code of Conduct developed by
           Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).


            PRINCIPLE 2

                       Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe
                       and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle

           The Research and Development (R&D) division of BAL is where over 1,300 highly qualified and skilled
           employees come together and share their insights on technological developments to help the Company
           push the envelope year after year. BAL’s state-of-the-art R&D centre is located in Akurdi, where the
           Management and Senior leadership work together to enhance the synergy between R&D,
           manufacturing and sales.

           BAL consistently aims to be the front runner in developing innovative and sustainable products while
           addressing the needs of consumers in every segment. The Company is also cognizant of the
           dependence on natural environment and invests resources to ensure safety and resource efficiency at
           all stages of the product lifecycle. This is evident in the Company’s initiatives on resource efficiency and
           safety, as described below.


                                                        Product sustainability
                                                        Every BAL product is compliant with the environmental
           Studies conducted by the                     standards in the Indian Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR),
           Company on its products have                 as applicable from time to time. These include regulation of
                                                        the tail-pipe emissions of air pollutants such as Carbon
           indicated the recyclability and              Monoxide (CO), Hydro-carbons (HC), Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
           recoverability rates of 87% and              gases as well as Particulate Matter (PM). For such
                                                        compliances, all BAL models are ‘Type Approved’ certified
           94% respectively                             by the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI).


4   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                             Business Responsibility Report




As per the requirement for emissions under CMVR, BAL is also compliant with the emission Conformity
of Production (COP). The Company also ensures compliance with emission standards for the models
exported globally, in line with the respective country’s norms.

All vehicles that are currently sold by BAL for Indian markets are BS-VI compliant. Furthermore, BAL is
focussing on electric mobility going forward. To enable this shift, a state-of-the-art electric vehicle and
components testing lab has been established, besides developing in-house designs and products. Taking
the first step in its electric mobility journey, BAL recently introduced ‘Chetak Electric’, an electric scooter
which is not only environment friendly, but also safe, convenient and comfortable.

Demonstrating BAL’s commitment towards sustainability at all stages of the vehicles lifecycle, studies
conducted by the Company on its products have indicated the recyclability and recoverability rates of
87% and 94% respectively.
In line with the norms set by the Government, all two-wheeler models having engines greater than
150cc have anti-lock braking system, while those having engines lesser than 150cc have combined
braking system.
Sustainable Sourcing
BAL has a ‘Green Purchasing Policy’ which is applicable to its entire supply chain. The policy lists the
requirements related to water, energy and natural resource conservation. A large number of BAL’s key
vendors are for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems.

The Company gives preference to local vendors wherever possible and has identified certain vendor
clusters which are located close to each of the its plants. BAL ensures engagement with its vendors
through the ‘Bajaj Auto Vendor Association’ (BAVA), which currently has 163 members. Currently,
135 of these members are ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 certified and the Company plans to make such
certifications a prerequisite for all BAVA members in the future, except for assembly and 3PL
logistics vendors.

Underlining the importance that BAL places on safety, BAVA Safety Committees have been formed at
Chakan, Waluj and Pantnagar. Each Committee consists of the safety officers and HR heads of BAVA
members in that cluster. These members are provided regular safety trainings to improve their
performance. In FY 2019-20, Behaviour Base Safety (BBS) training was initiated and provided to all
committee members. Further, a detailed safety audit plan and check sheet is prepared to enable
cross-audits at other locations within the clusters. These audits, conducted by the committee members
themselves, provide them a platform to share best practices with others. In FY 2019-20, a total of 124
such audits were completed.

BAL has a Total Productive Maintenance (TPM) Policy which assists Tier I and Tier II vendors to enhance
their operational, human and cost efficiencies. In FY 2019-20, 174 Tier I vendor groups and 295 Tier II
vendors were practising TPM. Extension of practice of TPM to Tier 2 vendors is reviewed in BAVA
Executive & Management Committee meetings. To advance the adoption of TPM, BAL has also instituted
the TPM Awards which recognise best TPM performing vendors. Cumulatively, 128 BAL TPM Awards
and 71 BAL TPM Excellence Awards have been distributed to vendors. Furthermore, 23 vendors have
been recognized with the JIPM TPM Excellence Award and 11 vendors received JIPM TPM Excellence
Consistency Award. To support improvement in the working efficiency of the service providers working
in the BAL plants, TPM has also been extended to them. Further, to enhance innovation and improve
efficiency, best kaizens are awarded in the annual function. These cover a variety of topics, including
productivity, quality, cost, delivery, safety and morale.

Additionally, ‘Cluster Kaizen Competition’ which is an initiative to drive efficiency improvement at the
vendor level is conducted every year. Furthermore, a final competition is held between clusters that
recognizes improvements in the areas of quality, productivity, capacity increase with minimal
investments, safety, environment & legal etc.

                                                      In FY 2019-20, BAL initiated a change in the practice
In FY 2019-20, 34 vendors installed                   of third party legal and environmental audits of
roof top solar projects of 9 MW                       vendors. After the closure of all previous findings
                                                      from the previous two cycles, a list of applicable laws
(cumulative 30 MW) capacity at their                  for vendors has been created. Further, a portal has
premises, resulting in generation of                  been developed for all BAVA members to upload
                                                      their compliance status with applicable laws. The
green power and reduction in
                                                      Company is also transitioning to an online system
greenhouse gas emissions.


                                                                                   13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    5
Business Responsibility Report




           through which alerts will be sent to BAL and its vendors for any upcoming renewals.

           Further, BAL encourages its vendors to adopt best practices in energy conservation, besides promoting
           installation of solar panels at major vendor locations. In FY 2019-20, 34 vendors installed roof top solar
           projects of 9 MW (cumulative 30 MW) capacity at their premises, resulting in generation of green power
           and reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
           Waste reduction

           With the aim of achieving a Plastic Mukt Bajaj by 2022, various initiatives have been taken to reduce and
           eliminate plastic in incoming vendor packing, as well as outgoing material packing, some of them are
           as follows:

           l     Replaced plastic packaging of cable with reusable cotton packaging
           l     Eliminated primary plastic packing of gear primary drive and gear balancer
           l     Reuse of plastic ribbon based on its quality
           l     Eliminated the plastic packaging of hand gloves




               PRINCIPLE 3
                       Businesses should promote the well-being
                       of all employees
           BAL continues to invest in skill and competency building and the overall well-being of its employees to
           drive performance excellence.

           In the year 2019-20, BAL hired 3,330 employees, including 236 permanent employees, 221 on
           probation, 2,628 trainees, 107 interns and 138 contractual employees, leading to a total headcount of
           10,718 employees as of 31 March 2020. Each of the four plants have Company recognised trade unions
           and 39.65% of the employees are members of the same. Currently, BAL has 24 specially-abled
           permanent employees. As an equal opportunity employer, BAL encourages employment of women
           across the organization. As on 31 March 2020, there were 595 women employees in BAL.

           While there were no complaints filed or pending relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary
           labour or discriminatory employment during the year 2019-20, one complaint related to sexual
           harassment was filed and closed during the same period as per laid down procedure.

           With the aim of ensuring the safety and security of women employees, BAL has formulated a
           ‘Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace’ (POSH) policy. In line with the requirement of law, an
           internal committee has been revised for Akurdi and a sales circle wise committee has been created.
           Additionally, a new external member has been on-boarded in the POSH Committee. Further, a POSH
           module has been launched for the plant internal committee.

           In the reporting year, a new Performance Management System (PMS) was launched across BAL, which
           includes a bi-annual feedback process. An organisation wide communication regarding the new PMS
           was undertaken through workshops, caselets, videos and Q&A sessions. Further, a separate
           communication plan was created for each employee. In order to bring about a change in the
           organisation structure, BAL also aims to streamline its hierarchy and provide faster growth to high
           potential and high performers through Grade Board banding.

                                                          Being cognizant of the fact that continuous skill
           No complaints filed or pending                 enhancement gives a zest to the productivity of the
                                                          employees, BAL provides its workforce various platforms
           relating to child labour, forced
                                                          and opportunities to upskill. In the year 2019-20, more
           labour, involuntary labour or                  than 9,341 employees were trained through 586 training
           discriminatory employment                      programmes, comprising of 12,800 people-days. Besides
                                                          this, employees were given training through TPM pillars,
           during the year 2019-20                        which included safety, health and environment related




6   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                         Business Responsibility Report




training spanning 4,987 people-days. The Company also has leadership development and other
programs arranged for senior level employees, the key ones include:

l     Self-Insight for Leading Manager
l     Self-Insight for Leadership
l     Stress and Wellness Programs

Through the Company’s collaboration with Loughborough University, six employees have successfully
completed their Master’s program with Distinction in the academic year 2018-19. At Loughborough, the
options offered are Mechanical Engineering, Automotive Engineering and Materials & Technology
Engineering. A graduation ceremony was organized for these six employees on 7 November 2019.
The second batch of five BAL employees joined the University in September 2019. Bajaj Auto Limited
has recently signed an MoU with Coventry University, which is one of UK’s leading universities for
Product Design and Electrical & Electronics Design. This offering is in continuation to our pursuit of
providing global learning exposure at prestigious institutes for our engineers.

Through e-learning library “THORS”, our employees have attended 1,981 training sessions across 140
unique training programs. Going forward, this will enable more employees to benefit from the available
learning resources due to flexibility and ease of access of this platform. Engineer’s Day Celebration was
held at BAL’s R&D department on 6 May 2019, where Dr. Mylswamy Annadurai, Program Director -
Chandrayan, ISRO, addressed the gathering. The celebration also included a series of engagement
events like online quiz and blogging contest. The event saw participation of over 150 R&D employees.

BAL focuses on the overall well-being of employees, providing them with requisite facilities and regular
recognition. Some of the key initiatives in this area include company car lease scheme for middle
management, prodigy felicitation program for employees’ children and sponsoring the employees for
participation in Pune FLO Half Marathon.

Various initiatives were taken up in the reporting year to leverage the digital medium. Under
digitization, BAL launched user data automation, where employee data sync is automated between SAP
and SucessFactors. This helps to reduce time and effort in running manual syncs to ensure the right
accesses for the employee. Further, MACH Website was launched, which is a design and build challenge
event for top five engineering colleges of India, as a pipeline for Graduate Trainee Engineer (GTE) hiring.
The Company has also launched an online system for conducting 360 degree feedback. On the social
media front, BAL continues to be the fastest growing LinkedIn page for any automotive company and
has the most followers for any Indian two-wheeler company.


    PRINCIPLE 4
            Businesses should respect the interests of, and be
            responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who
            are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised
BAL is an equal opportunity employer and ensures zero discrimination towards socially disadvantaged
sections in the workplace. With the aim of formalizing its commitment, it launched the ‘Code of Conduct
for Affirmative Action’ in 2006, which ensures that preference is given to people from socially
disadvantaged sections of the society, provided merit and other business considerations are equal.

During the year 2019-20, BAL recruited 3,330 new employees of which 298 (8.95%) belong to scheduled
castes & scheduled tribes and 1,032 (30.99%) belong to OBC category.


    PRINCIPLE 5
           Businesses should respect and promote
           human rights

As a responsible corporate citizen, BAL ensures compliance with all applicable laws and strives to
uphold the human rights of all its internal and external stakeholders. In this regard, a quarterly legal
compliance report is submitted to the Company’s Board of Directors. In the year 2019-20, there were no
complaints on violation of human rights.



                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    7
Business Responsibility Report




               PRINCIPLE 6
                       Business should respect, protect and make efforts to
                       restore the environment

           BAL is committed to improving lives, now and for generations to come, by ensuring that its products
           and operations are safe for its employees, customers and the environment. The Company strives to
           continuously improve its efficiency while reducing its carbon footprint, thereby supporting a clean
           environment and society. BAL continues to remain in full compliance with all applicable regulations and
           is committed to the continual improvement of its performance, especially pertaining to safety,
           occupational health and environment.

           As evident in BAL’s Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) policy, the Company accords highest priority
           to employee health, safety and protection of environment. BAL strives to create a proactive SHE culture
           that addresses significant safety, occupational health & environment aspects related to activities,
           products and services. The Company is also committed towards minimizing the generation of waste
           and conserving natural resources through better technology and practices. The Company consistently
           strives towards creating and preserving a cleaner, healthier and safe work environment.

           Continuing its endeavour to reduce packaging waste generation and bring down demand for virgin
           material, the Company has replaced wooden crates with steel frames, while plywood and thermocol
           have been replaced by corrugated or eco-link boards.

           In the year 2019-20, BAL actively engaged in conducting activities on World Environment Day, which is
           observed on 5th June. Various activities were carried out across 102 dealerships in 19 states which
           saw participation of a total of 9,617 vehicles. The activities included Pollution Under Control (PUC)
           camps, sapling distribution and plantation, drawing competition in schools and education and
           knowledge sharing by various authorities.

           Below are the key highlights of the plant-wise SHE initiatives and performance:

           Environment
           Waluj
           l     Achieved 9.19% reduction in specific power consumption
           l     Achieved 5% reduction in specific LPG consumption
           l     Attained 5.71% reduction is specific water consumption
           l     Achieved 14% reduction in specific Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions
           l     Zero liquid discharge with 100% recycling of process wastewater
           l     Created rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge structures
           l     Certified with latest version of OHSAS 18001 with ISO 45001:2018
           l     Installed 5MWp solar roof top power plant
           l     Installed energy efficient Screw Compressor to reduce electrical consumption by 7.5%.
           l     Planted 550 Neem saplings, cumulative number of saplings planted till date: 64,500

           Pantnagar
           l     Achieved 4.5% reduction in specific power consumption
           l     Achieved 30% reduction is specific water consumption
           l     Zero liquid discharge with 100% recycling of process wastewater
           l     Created rainwater storage pond with capacity 25,000 KL
           l     Installed Reverse Osmosis plant for treating Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) treated water, which is
                 used in paint shop
           l     Installed Piezometer to measure ground water level
           l     Installed online stack emission monitoring system
           l     Installed ETP storage tank with 200 KL capacity to store emergency effluent water
           l     Air pollution reduction - SO2 (Mg/nm3): 41.3
           l     Paint Sludge Reduction (Kg/vehicle): 0.16
           l     Reduction in BOD Mg/ltr.: 15.5
           l     Reduction in COD Mg/ltr.: 54.95




8   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                        Business Responsibility Report




l    Reduction in plastic waste generation (gm/vehicle): 51
l    Installation of day light pipes in all shops and natural turbo ventilator in the paint shop
l    Institution of Hydromx solution in hot water generator, thus ensuring fuel saving
l    Installation of aerators in taps and enhancement of rain water storage pond to conserve water

Chakan
l    Achieved 4.92% reduction in specific power consumption
l    Achieved 5.8% reduction in specific LPG consumption
l    Attained 14% reduction is specific water consumption
l    Realized 12% reduction in specific GHG emissions
l    Created rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge structures
l    Zero liquid discharge with 100% recycling of process wastewater
l    Use of solar power from roof top 2 MW solar power plant
l    Planted 1,250 fruit trees, cumulative number of trees of varied species planted till date: 45,000
l    Composting of food waste using Black Soldier Flies BSF larva

Akurdi
l    Use of Induction LED for street lighting, shop lightings and office fittings
l    Use of energy efficient pumps for ETP and water supply
l    Use of solar power from roof top 3.22 MWp solar power plant
l    Optimum utilization of energy in water chillers for R&D process area
l    Made efficient use of Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) treated water for gardening
l    Water chiller integration and removal of multiple Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC)
     systems led to reduction in water consumption
l    All water-cooled ACs are converted to air cooled conditioners
l    Installed water aerators for taps and ensured daily check for leakages

Health and Safety
Waluj
l    Implemented and certified for IMS Certification (Safety + Environment)
l    Trained 5,072 contractual workmen and 1,910 BAL employees on SHE topics
l    Participation in Safety Rally organized by DISH office & Marg Aurangabad to create safety
     awareness

Pantnagar
l    Installation of hand railing and speed breakers at identified locations on plant road
l    Installation of ozone friendly gas-based auto fire suppression system in server room
l    Vaccination of bio medical waste and food handlers to prevent any untoward incident

Chakan
l    Won the gold medal for safety presentation and silver medal in skit completion organized by
     Quality Circle Forum of India, Pune chapter, during Safety Week 2020
l    Trained 1,253 contractual workmen and 912 BAL employees and 241 trainees on SHE topics.
l    Implemented and Certified for IMS Certification (Safety + Environment) ISO 14001:2015 and
     OHSAS 18001:2007

Akurdi
l    Trained 1,127 contractual workmen and 59 permanent employees and 145 trainees on SHE topics.
l    Undertook 15 mock drill with various scenarios
l    Organized various competitions as part of the Safety Week Celebrations
All plants of BAL operate as per the ‘Consent-to-Operate’ provided by the respective State Pollution
Control Board (SPCB) and are within permissible limits with regards to the emissions and waste
generated. No show cause notice was received from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) or the
respective SPCB.




                                                                              13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    9
Business Responsibility Report




               PRINCIPLE 7
                       Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and
                       regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner

           BAL actively engages with several industry and government associations, domestic as well as global, to
           present its views on setting of new industry standards and regulatory developments related to the
           automotive manufacturing industry. Areas covered include governance and administration, economic
           reforms and inclusive development policies, among others. As a responsible corporate citizen, BAL
           aims to bring about a positive impact in the business ecosystem of the automotive manufacturing
           industry. Some of the key associations of which BAL is member of, are:

           l     Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
           l     Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers
           l     World Economic Forum
           l     Federation of Indian Export Organizations
           l     The Automotive Research Association of India
           l     Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture
           l     National Safety Council
           l     The Advertising Standards Council of India
           l     Indian Merchant Chamber
           l     Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry
           l     Engineering Export Promotion Council of India
           l     Quality Circle Forum of India


               PRINCIPLE 8
                       Businesses should support inclusive growth and
                       equitable development

           The vision and philosophy of late Shri Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the Corporate
           Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the group. He embodied the concept of trusteeship in business
           and common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and transparent functioning. Bajaj
           Group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond balance sheets
           or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business and industry make
           to the lives of people.

           Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the vicinity
           of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
           conservation, infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities. For
           society, however, Bajaj is more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment and
           the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.

           It is this goodwill that has made the Company “The World’s Favourite Indian”!
           Guiding principles:
           The Bajaj Group believes that social investments should:

           l     Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
                 generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society over
                 long periods.

           l     Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
                 strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.

           l     Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education and
                 productivity.

           l     Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively




10   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                         Business Responsibility Report




     to create excellence for self and for the team.

l    Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it has
     a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.

l    Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
     lowest rung irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.

l    Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
     adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.


Our Activities
(Please refer to the Annual Report on CSR activities for a detailed list of partners and grant amounts)

Rural Development
1. Jankidevi Bajaj Gram Vikas Sanstha (JBGVS)
     JBGVS is a registered society and a Trust, founded in 1987. It is an apolitical and secular
     rural development organisation. It aims to act as a catalyst and assist the participating rural
     community for their own development in the selected 297 villages of Pune, Aurangabad and
     Wardha Districts of Maharashtra, Sikar District in Rajasthan and Udhamsingh Nagar District of
     Uttarakhand. Since its inception in 1987, JBGVS has been involved in implementing integrated
     rural and urban development programmes aimed towards improving the quality of life of the
     poor and economically weaker section of the society. The major focus has been to improve
     primary education, health, environment, and livelihood. Presently the activities that are carried
     out by JBGVS both independently and in partnership with domain specific NGOs are given in the
     succeeding paragraphs.
     Natural Resource Management (NRM):

     i.   Bajaj Water Conservation Project (BWCP):

          Phase I of BWCP covered 51 villages
          of Paithan Taluka of Aurangabad. The
          project provided access to drinking
          water and irrigation facilities for the
          villagers. Currently, JBGVS is working
          on soil health improvement, livelihood
          generation through fishery and goat
          rearing, and agriculture productivity
          enhancement in these villages.

          Phase II covered 110 villages of
          Gangapur and Aurangabad Talukas
          which are drought prone. Through
          continuous work since 2017 towards water conservation, almost 80% of the villages have got
          access to clean drinking water. The villagers were also facilitated with lifesaving irrigation to
          their crops in second phase of BWCP. As of March 2020, the total water harvesting capacity
          created was 31,724 TCM, which has enabled irrigation potential of 3,898 Hectare. Moreover,
          silt removed from Percolation Tanks and Nalas was spread over 2,408 Hectares of agriculture
          land, thereby enhancing its productivity. BWCP Phase III, Aurangabad has committed budget
          of H 19,878 lakh, out which H 9,810 lakh has been disbursed.

          Phase III of the project was launched in Vaijapur Taluka of Aurangabad District in September
          2019, covering 12 villages with an area of 8,584 Hectares and 2,511 households. In addition,
          phase III has been started in Aurangabad, Satara and Yavatmal Districts of Maharashtra,
          covering 30 villages with a budget of H 4,263 lakh. These villages have an area of 17,696
          Hectares and include 34,898 households. Apart from these, detailed project report
          preparation for new watershed projects is in process. These will cover 22 villages, with an
          area of 25,182 Hectares, spread across five blocks of Satara, Ahmednagar and Beed Districts
          of Maharashtra.




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    11
Business Responsibility Report




                 Following are the achievements till date of BWCP Phase II, Aurangabad Project:

                 l    94 Village Development Committees (VDCs) formed
                 l    559 Self-Help Groups (SHGs) formed
                 l    447 Water Use Groups (WUGs) formed
                 l    329 sites of Nala deepened and 88 Km length widened
                 l    18 Core Wall Gabions (CWGs) constructed
                 l    63 new Cement Nala Bunds (CNBs) constructed and 14 old structures repaired
                 l    83 Percolation Tanks deepened
                 l    186 Farm Ponds dug and 55 wells recharged

           Case Study: Due to shortage of rainfall over a long period, Mr. Vijay Bisan Tupe and others in his village
           faced several water related challenges – from scarcity of drinking water for animals and human
           consumption to lack of water for agricultural purposes. A bandara was constructed under the Bajaj Water
           Conservation Project (BWCP) on Shivna river, 4 kms from the village. Built at a cost of J 250 lakh, this
           bandara has helped raise the ground water level by 50 feet and recharged about 70 borewells in a one
           and a half kilometre radius. It has made a positive impact on the lives of the village residents who expect
           this water level to be maintained for at least a year.


           (ii) Foundation of Ecological Security, Anand, Gujarat:
                 One of the most critical problems being faced today is the degradation of land and water resources
                 in the catchment areas. This has led to depleting water supplies, thereby affecting agricultural
                 productivity. This project intends to augment conservation of water for improving resilience of
                 agriculture in rain fed areas. The project is spread over Bhilwada, Udaipur, Rajsamand, Chhitorgarh
                 and Pratapgarh Districts of Rajasthan, covering an area of more than 35,000 Hectares. The total
                 commitment from Bajaj to this project is H 2,700 lakh, out of which H 1,485 lakh has already been
                 disbursed till March 2020.
           (iii) Shramjivi Janta Shahayak Mandal, Satara:
                 The project is in Mann Taluka of Satara District, Maharashtra and covers four villages, spread
                 over 5,224 hectares and benefiting 1,136 Households with a population 6,251. The major issue
                 associated with this area is low rainfall. Average annual rainfall of the project area for the last
                 10 years is 451.31mm with severe scarcity of potable drinking water. The villagers, especially
                 women are the worst affected who spend a lot of time and energy in fetching drinking water from
                 distant places during summer. Bajaj Group is supporting this project with a funding to the tune of
                 H 1,185 lakh. With the funding till March 2020, four Village Development Committees, 39 Self
                 Help Groups, 26 Water User Groups have been formed. Plus, 1,498 Loose Boulder Structures and
                 31 Gabion Structures have been constructed. Also, water absorption trenches were excavated
                 covering an area of 74 Hectares. Due to this water conservation work, this year all wells and
                 percolation tanks have enough water and farmers have got lifesaving irrigation for their crops.
                 This has also reduced migration from villages.
           iv. People Science Institute (PSI), Dehradun, Uttarakhand:
                 PSI is pioneering the work of natural resource management, community-led watershed-based
                 livelihoods development, post disaster reconstruction and rehabilitation, disaster safe housing,
                 environmental quality monitoring, promotion of system intensification and river conservation.
                 The proposed program in partnership with Bajaj aims to regenerate and protect 50 critical
                 springs in five water scarce districts of Uttarakhand. Considering dependency of a minimum
                 of 20 households per spring, the program will benefit about 1,000 households covering a
                 population of around 5,000.




12   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                          Business Responsibility Report




Education
i.   Room to Read - Literacy Program in Udhamsingh Nagar
     and Maharashtra:
     Room to Read Literacy Program
     attempts to improve literacy
     instruction and the establishment
     of school libraries to provide the
     students with well-trained teachers,
     effective literacy curriculum and a
     print rich environment to build the
     habit of reading among children. The
     phase one of project implementation
     oversaw establishment and
     handover of 54 classrooms with
     facilitation of a project coordinator
     to periodically monitor the outcomes
     of the project. Under phase two,
     currently instruction classes for
     Class-1 and library sessions for Classes 2-5 are being held using teaching mechanisms like read
     aloud, shared, paired & independent reading. So far, the 154 Bajaj funded Room to Read Literacy
     Programmes have provided quality reading materials to 19,245 students.
ii. AASRA Trust - Education for street children, Dehradun, Uttarakhand:
     The project in partnership with Bajaj works towards empowering street children with education.
     The project has 21 programme activities ranging from identification of out-of-school children,
     enrolling them in school and supporting them with facilities to retain them in schools till
     graduation.
iii. Fellowship support to Teach For India
     Teach to Lead through its Teach For India (TFI), Fellowship program provides an opportunity
     to India’s brightest and most promising individuals, from the nation’s best universities and
     workplaces, to serve as full-time teachers to children from low-income communities in some of
     the nation’s most under-resourced schools. Through their 'Be the Change Project' fellows reveal
     the power of collective action as they engage with the community and the large ecosystem
     around them to affect change. Projects include building school management, parent employment
     empowerment and active community engagement. In the program funded by Bajaj, TFI is
     supporting 165 fellows and reaching out to 3,500 students per year.
iv. Swadhar- School Intervention program for underprivileged
    children in classes 1-4, Pune Urban
     The project runs in partnership with Swadhar and works towards facilitating school intervention
     for children between Classes 1-4 in 58 schools across Pune. The project operating in close
     coordination with the School Board through its ‘Book Fairies’ undertakes distribution of books
     to the target children in allotted time slots to inculcate effective reading habits in the children,
     thereby improving their language & vocabulary. A reading ability test is conducted twice every
     academic year to gauge development in the children. The project currently reaches out to 12,000
     children in the location.

Health
i.   The Kamalnayan Bajaj Hospital, Aurangabad:
     The Kamalnayan Bajaj Hospital, which is a charitable institute, extends services to Below Poverty
     Line (BPL) and Economically Weaker Section (EWS) of the society. While the treatment for BPL
     patients is free, for EWS it is subsidized to the extent of 50%. Till date, the benefit of this scheme
     has been extended to 1,57,457 patients and an amount of approximately H 17.48 crore has been
     spent on it.




                                                                               13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    13
Business Responsibility Report




           ii. Sri Chaitanya Mission (Bhakti Vedanta hospital)
                 Bhaktivedanta Hospital & Research Institute (a project of Sri Chaitanya Seva Trust) is a NABH
                 accredited hospital which focuses on healthcare. It is a 200 bed multispecialty hospital providing
                 free, concessional and affordable healthcare services through preventive and protective holistic
                 approach to the needy sections of the society. The hospital provides state of the art facility to
                 bottom of the pyramid in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, touching 11 million lives. Bajaj Auto
                 Limited supported the infrastructure development for housing 100 additional beds. The intent
                 behind the H 600 lakh project is to create facilities that would provide surgical assistance to people
                 with eye health disorders, besides providing the treatment for cancer.
           iii. United Way of Delhi (UWD) – Neev Programme: Setting up
                anganwadis in Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand:
                 The project (formerly known as Born Learning) aims at providing nutritional and educational
                 support to children in the pre-primary age group (0-6 years). Children falling under this age
                 bracket require maximum physical, psychological and emotional support to blossom into
                 healthy adults. Believing in this notion, the project which runs in Udhamsingh Nagar has already
                 established 20 anganwadis in the said location to provide a healthy environment for child
                 growth and education. The project also proposes to establish 100 more such anganwadis in the
                 JBGVS core geography. An evidence of the impact of the ongoing partnership is a 25% rise in the
                 admission of children in the established Anganwadis, as evident from UWD records.
           iv. AROHI- Reducing maternal and child morbidity in Nainital and
               Almora, Uttarakhand:
                 The project attempts to bring maternal health facilities to the doorstep of the remote village
                 women from the Kumaon Himalayas who otherwise suffer from poor health due to lack of proper
                 infrastructure and inaccessible transport facilities. The goal of the project is to reduce maternal
                 and child morbidity & mortality in the Okhalhanda block of Nainital District. The project has
                 established a resource centre reaching out to 10 villages in the said location and a mobile medical
                 unit which reaches out to 105 village women with diagnostic facilities during pregnancy and
                 post childbirth. The partnership has impacted lives of 1,00,000 beneficiaries from three blocks-
                 Ramgarh, Okhalkhanda & Kapkot of Nainital & Bageshwar District by eliminating maternal death
                 rates and successfully handling two critical cases of ante natal women.
           v. The Corbett Foundation - The Bajaj Saksham Project,
              Nainital, Uttarakhand
                 The project aims to provide primary healthcare facilities to the communities living in and around
                 the tiger reserves of Corbett, Kanha and Bandhavgarh. It also helps to create a harmonious
                 coexistence between wildlife and human beings by building healthy communities to sustain the
                 reserves. The project undertakes health service delivery through mobile medical units and OPD
                 centre in Garhwal and has impacted 17,278 patients through the field and special health camps
                 conducted every week.
           vi. Agrani - Training frontline health
               workers for safe healthcare
               practices
                 The Arogya project is being implemented in
                 four regions of Champawat block, covering a
                 population of 9,400 people across 31 villages.
                 Through the project, Agrani engages with
                 29 frontline workers to ensure that safe and
                 hygienic healthcare practices exist within
                 the community. The project also conducts
                 monthly awareness sessions on anaemia and
                 menstrual health for adolescent girls and
                 boys in three government schools, covering
                 approximately 1,200 students.




14   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                        Business Responsibility Report




vii. Jimmedari Foundation, Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand
     Under the Bajaj Mobile Health Clinic project,
     in partnership with Jimmedari Foundation,
     beneficiaries from rural villages of
     Udhamsingh Nagar have been provided with
     equitable and accessible primary healthcare
     services in the form of Mobile Health Clinic.
     The health clinics operate once a-month
     through a fixed date outreach initiative,
     benefiting 30,000 people across 25 villages.
     Bajaj Auto Limited supported them with
     the provision of a mobile van worth H 13.80
     lakh to set up the mobile health clinics that
     would carry out the primary healthcare
     service delivery.
viii. Sri Ramkrishna Vivekananda Sevasrama:
     The project reaches out to the inhabitants of Guptakashi in Rudraprayag District with healthcare
     service delivery which is otherwise inaccessible to them due to the extreme weather conditions
     and difficult terrain. The Bajaj Health Initiative- Rudraprayag Project, attempts to run two free
     medical clinics for the people living in the remote area of Kedarnath valley reaching out to
     30,000 people.

Livelihood
i.   BAIF Institute for Sustainable Livelihood Development
     (BISLD) Uttarakhand:
     BISLD has established 50 Cattle Development Centres in five Districts (Udhamsingh Nagar,
     Nainital, Champawat, Almora, Bageshwar) of Uttarakhand, which will provide services to
     500 villages and 27,500 families. Animals are an essential part of the production system
     in Uttarakhand and the region faces fodder scarcity, lack of awareness and reach of health
     management services for livestock, resulting in low yielding livestock. BISLD has conducted 232
     veterinary health camps in which 11,830 animals got health check-up and vaccination. BISLD
     has been providing doorstep breed enhancement services (Artificial Insemination) through which
     44,640 procedures which have been done till March 2020. Further, advisory services and package
     of practices have been provided to 5,304 farmers. The project has also introduced sorted semen
     (Sorted Semen Artificial Insemination) and has undertaken 3,944 procedures with sorted semen.
     The overall objective of the project is upliftment of the community with sustainable livelihood
     development, through introduction of livestock value chain.
ii. Bajaj Auto - BYST Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program
     The Bajaj Auto - BYST Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program, with a financial support of
     H 507.5 lakh has successfully created more than 1,000 entrepreneurs from Aurangabad
     and Wardha and generated employment for 29,725 individuals. The sectors in which such
     entrepreneurs were created include: Engineering, Hotels & Catering, Lifestyle, Logistics, Marketing
     & Branding, Medical & Health, Photo & Videography, Stitching & apparel, Service sector- repairing
     work, multiservice etc, with the highest results in the field of engineering. Of these newly created
     entrepreneurs, Mr. Yogesh Ghodke from Aurangabad and Mr. Swapnil Nimje from Wardha are two
     pioneers who are running their units in respective sectors with a turnover of more than two crore
     through support under this CSR project. A few among these entrepreneurs also received awards
     in their respective fields of work. Post immense success, the project in the current year proposes
     to provide another 72 months further hand holding to 1,500 new entrepreneurs to enhance their
     scope and utilize their potential. The total cost for the project is H 1,000 lakh.
iii. CORD, Almora, Uttarakhand:
     Chinmaya Organization for Rural Development (CORD) in partnership with Bajaj is undertaking
     integrated rural development programs that include: community institute building, gender, health,
     women empowerment, livelihood, micro-credit, social inclusion of disabled etc. The project is
     undertaking training on various rural development issues that would reach out to a population of
     5,000 from four panchayats of Dholadevi and Dwarahat block of Almora District, Uttarakhand.




                                                                            13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20        l    15
Business Responsibility Report




           iv. HIMAL PRAKRITI, Munsiyari, Uttarakhand:
                 Himal Prakriti is working with a vision to promote nature conservation and sustainable livelihoods
                 in the Himalayas. It is strengthening and supporting the processes for the democratic governance
                 of natural resources through the reactivation of Van-Panchayats. Its activities include research
                 & conservation action, nature-based education, advocacy & policy interventions and exploring
                 & promoting suitable low-cost technology innovations in the remote Himalayan villages. With
                 support from Bajaj, Himal Prakriti has so far established 11 Poly Houses, 24 Smokeless Chulhas
                 and four nurseries. With the support of the villagers the project activities like pond rejuvenation
                 and conservation of traditional breeds of 11 yaks has also been undertaken.
           v. Sahjeevan Munsiyari, Uttarakhand:
                 Bajaj Auto Ltd. is supporting Sahjeevan, a not-for-profit organization that aims to create
                 livelihood opportunities for shepherd communities. Sahjeevan's core area of work involves herd
                 improvement, conserving alpine rangeland and ecological resources, and reducing animal-human
                 conflict. To achieve this, Sahjeevan has recently undertaken an in-depth baseline survey to gain
                 an estimate of the total number of herding communities spread out across the Himalayas. The
                 baseline survey gives an insight onto the attitudinal shifts of the herding communities based
                 on the problems faced by them. Besides this, they have also set up trap cameras across the
                 Himalayas to assess and analyse the scope of predator attacks on the sheep herds.

           Sports
           i.    Abhinav Bindra Foundation
                 Bajaj Auto Limited has funded the establishment of the Abhinav Bindra Foundation which provides
                 world class infrastructure to athletes in India, so that they can increase their performance by
                 mitigating injuries and attain accurate result by adopting world class machinery. Abhinav Bindra
                 Targeting Performance (ABTP) provides world’s best facilities and helps to improve athlete’s
                 performance. It helps to prepare world class athletes and helps athletes to become fit for world
                 events. The objective of the Foundation was to set up a high-performance training and advance
                 rehabilitation centre with state-of-the-art technology. This centre, in Pune, Maharashtra, has all
                 the modern facilities and technologies for providing world-class assessment, training, injury
                 prevention, rehabilitation, besides redefining health and fitness with principles of recovery and
                 rejuvenation.

           Disaster/Relief
           i.    Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) – Odisha
                 In the state of Odisha, cyclone Fani had caused extensive damage to public property and
                 infrastructure along with
                 loss of lives. According to
                 the Government, the cyclone
                 had devastated as many as
                 20,367 villages in 14 coastal
                 districts of Odisha. Besides,
                 the cyclone had affected one
                 crore and sixty lakh people
                 and damaged one lakh
                 and eighty-eight thousand
                 hectares of agricultural land.
                 To meet the expenditure of
                 the ongoing relief efforts,
                 the Government had sought
                 monetary aid from various
                 quarters. As a responsible
                 corporate citizen, the Bajaj Group provided a helping hand to the Government and donated H 10
                 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF).
           ii. Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) – Maharashtra
                 Districts in Pune division, specifically Kolhapur and Sangli, battled unprecedented floods in the
                 past year. In addition, Pune, Thane, Nashik, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg Districts
                 also received heavy rains. As per media reports 761 villages in 69 Talukas were affected by floods,
                 with close to four and a half lakh people from various flood hit districts, mostly from Sangli and



16   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                       Business Responsibility Report




     Kolhapur, being shifted to 372 temporary camps and shelters. Further, more than 13,000 people
     had been relocated in Pune and PCMC as well. As the Government worked to provide relief to
     the affected citizens, the Bajaj Group provided a helping hand by donating H 5 crore to the Chief
     Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF).
iii. Response to The Global Pandemic Covid-19
     The Bajaj Group has actively stepped in to fight the Coronavirus pandemic, which has struck India
     hard. The Bajaj Group has pledged an amount of H 100 crore to fight Covid-19 in India. As part
     of its response to the pandemic, the Bajaj Group will work closely with the government and its
     strong network of over 200 NGOs and deploy measures to make resources available for fighting
     the Coronavirus. The primary focus will be towards supporting upgradation of key healthcare
     infrastructure which will be needed to tackle the spread of Coronavirus. The Group has identified
     government and private sector hospitals where it will help upgrade ICUs and procure much
     needed equipment like ventilators for patients and personal protection equipment for healthcare
     workers, doctors, nurses and other medical staff. Further, isolation units have also been set up and
     testing facilities have been enhanced for Covid-19 in the areas of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and the
     rural areas of Pune.


 PRINCIPLE 9
           Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide
           value to their customers and consumers in a
           responsible manner

Company’s Philosophy
BAL believes that ‘customer centricity’ is a fundamental driver for business excellence. Guided by its
Quality policy, the Company uses various modes like service centres, web-based interfaces, dealer
showrooms and call centres to engage with its customers and seek feedback for continuous improvement
and enhanced customer experience. To engage closely with its customers and enhance its service quality,
the Company has also launched a Bajaj Care Service mobile app. BAL also ensures regular engagement
with local service providers through structured familiarization programmes and trainings.

The Company has also taken keen interest in improving the quality of service provided by its dealers.
This is achieved via a host of initiatives including Dealer Service Quality Standard Audits, Kaizen
Awards and Skill Contests, besides the roll-out of the ‘Centralized Dealer Management System’ (CDMS)
for all the dealers. In order to provide quick and effective customer support all the call centres have
been integrated with the CDMS. This allows the support executive to identify customers using their
mobile number and instantly access all the customer related data.

In order to ensure customer on-road safety and efficient use of vehicles, BAL provides an owner’s
manual with each vehicle that includes safety check mechanisms, Do's and don’ts as well as fuel saving
tips. Also, it conducts pre-monsoon campaigns, focused on safe driving and preventive check-up tips
for the season. During the year 2019-20, 101 cases were filed at the consumer forum, while 358 cases
are pending as on 31 March 2020.

BAL is a signatory to Advertising Standard Council of India (ASCI), who evaluates and provides
corrective recommendations for advertisements. As a responsible organization, BAL’s marketing
department ensures hygiene factors in all its advertisements such as displaying helmets by all
passengers on bikes and disclaimers for advertisements with bikes performing stunts.
Commercial vehicles:
BAL’s continued to support the ‘Swarozgar Campaign’ and the ‘Driver Bane Malik’ initiative are
testimonies to its enduring quest of empowering its customers. Swarozgar Campaign enables rural
                                                  youth to enter the three-wheeler business, while
                                                  Driver Bane Malik ensures contract drivers are
                                                  assisted in purchasing their own vehicles.
To engage closely with its customers Additionally, ‘Certified Service Technician’ and ‘Power
and enhance its service quality, the              Technician’ programmes have been initiated by BAL
                                                  and are aimed at upgrading the skills of technicians
Company has also launched a Bajaj                 by providing them training and tools. These
Care Service mobile app.                          programmes are designed to provide better service



                                                                            13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    17
Business Responsibility Report




           to BAL customers, while also increasing the earning potential of the technicians. The ‘Certified Service
           Technician’ and 'Power Technician’ programmes currently have 1,246 and 2,996 empanelled
           technicians respectively, spread across India. An annual ‘Road Safety Campaign’ was organised at 128
           dealerships, which included a check of the vehicle’s health condition and eye check-up of the drivers.

           Further, various skill contests were initiated across two levels – technician and supervisor. A total of
           749 technicians at state level and 178 technicians at zonal level participated in these contests. At
           supervisor level contests, there were 210 participants at state level and 86 at zonal level. Additionally,
           implementation of dealer service station audit process has enabled improvement in the dealer
           service quality.

           With the aim of improving customer experience, BAL has enhanced warranty and now provides three free
           services. The Company has also strengthened its call centre manpower for better customer service.
           Motorcycles:
           Underlining its truly global customer base, BAL has created the brand identity of
           ‘The World’s favourite Indian’. It truly reflects the presence of Bajaj in countries across the world.

           Through various programmes, BAL’s marketing team aims at providing enhanced riding experience to
           its customers. Innovative ways are adopted to engage with the customers. These include riding
           activation tours, biking tours, knowledge sessions and expeditions. A special focus is given on principles
           of safe riding for which exclusive programmes are held for customers with high-end motorbikes. The
           Company helps them become better riders irrespective of their riding skills – beginner, amateur,
           trained or professional.

           To improve customer experience and vehicle turnaround time, a mobile app has been launched, which
           is used to open job cards at workshops, thereby reducing the waiting time for customers. The
           motorcycle business unit has adopted paperless service support to customers in order to transform
           their service experience. Electronic parts catalogues is one of the examples of such digital tools which
           helps in ordering the exact type of the parts required. Furthermore, the Company has opened 22
           regional training hubs in order to step up the capability of the workshop teams.

                                                          With the aim of improving transparency for customers,
           The first-hand experience of                   customer information boards and customer grievance
                                                          escalation boards have been installed at the dealerships.
           customers at call centre has been
                                                          The first-hand experience of customers at call centre has
           improved significantly where 95%               been improved significantly where 95% of the customers
           of the customers are responded                 are responded within five hours. In addition to this, an
                                                          email response station has been further developed to
           within five hours.                             respond to customers within 10 minutes.




18   l    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
                                                                                        Business Responsibility Report




BAL’s Service Strategy is aimed at stepping up customer experience at workshops, which is coined as
Customer Success. The key elements being:

l    to step up the capability of channel and internal team
l    to enhance the quality of network along with culture transformation at the workshops
l    to bring about more rigour on process and system compliance and bring along digital
     transformation
l    to achieve desirable business outcomes through improved customer service satisfaction index and
     dealer workshop revenue growth

                                                     One of the pillars of the service strategy for
As a value addition for the customers,               motorcycles is that BAL will have a structured
                                                     engagement programme with the local
BAL also provides the option of                      mechanics, thereby promoting positive word of
installing the charging system at the                mouth feedback about Bajaj motorcycles. With the
                                                     aim of amplifying the same, BAL initiated a
residence of customers via its
                                                     programme named 'Bajaj ke Ustaad'. The
installation partner.                                Company had commenced this activity of
                                                     structured engagement with the local mechanics
with the help of a mobile training van in January 2019. More than 5,500 local mechanics in more than
260 locations from the states of the western zone including Rajasthan, have undergone this product
familiarization program in the reporting year.
Electric Vehicle:
BAL recently introduced ‘Chetak Electric’, a one of its kind electric vehicle in the two-wheeler segment.
Besides being environment friendly with zero emissions, Chetak is also much quieter to run than the
petrol-powered two-wheelers. With advanced safety features, it provides a safe and comfortable
experience to its riders.

The process of purchasing the vehicle is simple and is completed online through the Chetak
e-commerce portal. This includes booking, uploading documents, choosing the financing and insurance
option and then finally making the payment. The customer needs to visit the store only for document
verification and to receive the final delivery. For prospective customers who want to know about the
vehicle in greater detail, an experience centre has been built in Pune. Here, with the help of augmented
reality, customers can understand the technology in the different parts of the product.

Owners of the Chetak Electric have the convenient option of charging the vehicle through a regular five
ampere domestic socket. In addition to this, the customers get a Chetak mobile application, which helps
them track the battery level. As a value addition for the customers, BAL also provides the option of
installing the charging system at the residence of customers via its installation partner.

With the aim of continuously improving the customer satisfaction levels, customer feedback is collected
at various points in the customer’s purchase journey, right from the test ride to installation of the
charging system.




                                                                             13th ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20       l    19
