                          Bajaj Auto Limited,
                          Akurdi, Pune 411 035. India.
                         Tel +91 20 27472851
                         Fax +91 20 274 73398
                         bajajauto.com
BAJAJ
          3 July 2023

           To                                            To
           Corporate Relations Department                Corporate Listing Department
           BSE Limited                                   National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
           1st Floor, New Trading Ring                   Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor
           Rotunda Building, P J Tower                   Plot No.C-1 , G Block
           Dalal Street                                  Bandra-Kurla Complex
           Mumbai 400 001                                Sandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
           BSE Code: 532977                              NSE Code: BAJAJ-AUTO

          Subject: Annual Report for FY2023 and Notice of 16th Annual General Meeting (AGM)

          Dear Sirs/Madam,

          This is further to our letter dated 25 April 2023, wherein the Company had informed that the
          AGM of the Company is scheduled to be held on Tuesday, 25 July 2023.

          In compliance with the provisions of Companies Act 2013, rules framed thereunder and
          Regulation 34(1) read with Regulation 30 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
          Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended , please find enclosed the following documents
          for the financial year 2022-23, which have also been sent to shareholders:

                •    Notice of the 16th Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on Tuesday, 25 July
                     2023 through Physical Mode.
                •    Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23
                     Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report

          Aforesaid documents are also available on the website of the                    Company,      i.e.
          https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance       and on        the
          website of KFin Technologies Limited at https://evoting .kfintech.com .

          Please take the above on your record.

          Thanking you,

          Yours faithfully,
          For Bajaj Auto Limited
                                 Digitally signed by
          SRIDHAR   SRIDHAR JAYARAMAN
          JAYARAMAN Date: 2023.07.03
                    15:51:42 +05'30'

          Dr. J Sridhar
          Company Secretary

          Encl: As above


Registered Office Akurdi Pune 411035 India                                                   CIN L65993PN2007PLC130076
                                                                                                               BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                               CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

                                                                                                               Regd. Office:
                                                                                                               Mumbai-Pune Road,
                                                                                                               Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
                                                                                                               E-mail ID: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                                                               Website: www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                               Phone: 020-6610 7868
                                                                                                               Fax: 020-2740 7380




                                                              AGM NOTICE

Notice is hereby given that the sixteenth annual general meeting of the shareholders of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘BAL’ or the ‘Company’) will be held
on Tuesday, 25 July 2023 at 2.00 p.m. at the registered office of the Company at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035 to transact the
following business:

ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.   To consider and adopt the standalone and consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2023,
     together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2.   To declare a dividend.
3.   To appoint a director in place of Niraj Bajaj (DIN 00028261), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
     and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4.   To appoint a director in place of Sanjiv Bajaj (DIN 00014615), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013
     and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
5.   To appoint a director in place of Madhur Bajaj (DIN 00014593), who retires by rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the Companies Act,
     2013 and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

SPECIAL BUSINESS
6.   Re-appointment of Rakesh Sharma as Whole-time Director of the Company for a period of five years
     with effect from 1 January 2024
     To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution:
     “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013,
     (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’) read along with Schedule V to the Act (including any amendment thereto or re-enactment thereof
     for the time being in force) and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended
     from time to time and based on the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee and subject to such sanctions as
     may be necessary, the consent of the members be and is hereby accorded to the re-appointment of Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670) as
     Whole-time Director with the designation as Executive Director (‘WTD’) of the Company for another term of five years commencing from
     1 January 2024 till 31 December 2028, liable to retire by rotation, upon the terms and conditions set out in the statement annexed to the
     Notice convening this Meeting, including the remuneration to be paid in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year
     during his said tenure within the overall limits of Section 197 of the Act and in the agreement entered into between the Company and WTD,
     which agreement is hereby approved, with liberty to the Board of Directors, to alter or vary the terms and conditions and remuneration
     including minimum remuneration as it may deem fit and in such manner as may be agreed to between the Board and WTD.
     “RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to revise the remuneration of WTD from time to time
     to the extent the Board of Directors may deem appropriate, provided that such revision is within the overall limits of the managerial
     remuneration as prescribed under the Act read with Schedule V thereto, and/or any guidelines prescribed by the Government from time
     to time and the said agreement between the Company and WTD be suitably amended to give effect to such modification, relaxation or
     variation without any further reference to the members of the Company in general meeting.
     ‘‘FURTHER RESOLVED THAT the Board of Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby severally authorised to
     do all such acts, deeds, matters and things and execute all such documents, instruments and writings as may be required and delegate all
     or any of its powers herein conferred to any committee of director(s) to give effect to the above resolution.”

By order of the Board of Directors
For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




Dr. J Sridhar
Company Secretary
Membership No. F1760
Pune: 25 April 2023



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited        1
    Notice




                                                                        NOTES:
    1      A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE, INSTEAD OF HIMSELF/HERSELF
           AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER. A PERSON CAN ACT AS PROXY ON BEHALF OF MEMBERS UP TO AND NOT EXCEEDING
           FIFTY AND HOLDING IN THE AGGREGATE NOT MORE THAN TEN PERCENT OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY. FURTHER,
           A MEMBER HOLDING MORE THAN TEN PERCENT OF THE TOTAL SHARE CAPITAL OF THE COMPANY CARRYING VOTING RIGHTS MAY
           APPOINT A SINGLE PERSON AS PROXY AND SUCH PERSON SHALL NOT ACT AS PROXY FOR ANY OTHER PERSON OR MEMBER. THE
           INSTRUMENT APPOINTING PROXY MUST BE DEPOSITED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE COMPANY NOT LESS THAN 48 HOURS
           BEFORE THE TIME OF COMMENCEMENT OF THE MEETING. IN THIS NOTICE, THE TERMS MEMBER(S) OR SHAREHOLDER(S) ARE USED
           INTERCHANGEABLY.

    2      During the period beginning 24 hours before the time fixed for the commencement of the meeting and ending with the conclusion of the
           meeting, members would be entitled to inspect the proxies lodged, at any time during the business hours of the Company, provided not
           less than 3 days written notice is given to the Company.

    3      Statement pursuant to section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) forms part of this Notice.

    4      Brief details of the directors, who are seeking appointment/re-appointment, are annexed hereto as per requirements of regulation 36(3) of
           the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) and as per provisions of the Act.

    5      The Board of Directors has recommended dividend of H 140 per equity share of the face value of H 10 each for the year ended 31 March
           2023 for the approval of shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting (‘AGM’).

    6      Pursuant to the provisions of section 91 of the Act and regulation 42 of the Listing Regulations, the Company has fixed Friday, 30 June
           2023 as the ‘Record Date’ for the purpose of determining the members eligible to receive dividend for the financial year 2022-23.

    7      Subject to the provisions of section 126 of the Act, dividend on equity shares, if declared at the AGM, will be credited/dispatched on
           Friday, 28 July 2023 as under:

           a)    to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided by share transfer agent of the Company i.e.
                 KFin Technologies Limited (‘KFin’) to the Company, as of or before the closing hours on Friday, 30 June 2023 and

           b)    to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form, as per the beneficial ownership data made available to the Company
                 by National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) as of the close of business
                 hours on Friday, 30 June 2023.

    8      As per the Listing Regulations and pursuant to SEBI Circular dated 20 April 2018, a company shall use any electronic mode of payment
           approved by the Reserve Bank of India for making payment to the members. Accordingly, the dividend, if declared, will be paid through
           electronic mode, where the bank account details of the shareholders required for this purpose are available. Where dividend payments
           are made through electronic mode, intimation regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the shareholders. Where the dividend
           could not be paid through electronic mode, the same will be paid through physical instrument such as non-negotiable instruments with
           bank account details of such shareholders printed thereon.

    9      To ensure timely credit of dividend through electronic mode or physical instrument such as banker’s cheque or demand draft, members
           are requested to notify change of address or particulars of their bank account, if any, to share transfer agent - KFin and to their respective
           depository participants.

    10     To avoid fraudulent transactions, the identity/signature of the members holding shares in electronic/demat form is verified with the
           specimen signatures furnished by NSDL/CDSL and that of members holding shares in physical form is verified as per the records of the
           share transfer agent of the Company. Members are requested to keep the same updated.

    11     SEBI has mandated that any service request from members holding securities in physical mode shall be entertained only upon
           registration of the PAN, KYC details and nomination. The folios wherein any one of the said document/details are not updated on or after
           1 October 2023 shall be frozen by the RTA. Further, such member will not be eligible to receive dividend in physical mode. Members are
           requested to furnish the details in the prescribed form to KFin. Forms can be downloaded from the website of the Company at
           https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous and website of KFin at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/

    12     In terms of section 101 and 136 of the Act, read together with the rules made thereunder, the listed companies may send the notice of
           annual general meeting and the annual report, including Financial Statements, Board Report, etc. by electronic mode. The Company is
           accordingly forwarding soft copies of the above referred documents to all those members, who have registered their e-mail addresses
           with their respective depository participants or with the share transfer agent of the Company. For members who have not registered
           their e-mail addresses, physical copies are sent in the permitted mode. Members may note that Annual Report 2022-23 and Notice along
           with proxy form and attendance slip will also be available on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-
           operational-performance, website of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Ltd. at www.bseindia.com and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. at
           www.nseindia.com and on the website of KFin at www.kfintech.com




2        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
                                                                                                                                         Notice




13   To receive communications through electronic means, including Annual Reports and Notices, members are requested to kindly register/
     update their e-mail address with their respective depository participants, where shares are held in demat mode.

14   Institutional/Corporate Shareholders (i.e. other than individuals/HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy (PDF / JPG Format)
     of its Board or governing body’s Resolution/Authorization etc., authorizing its representative to attend the AGM on its behalf and to
     vote through remote e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to the Scrutinizer by e-mail through its registered e-mail
     address to cssdlimaye@gmail.com with a copy marked to mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com.

15   Institutional investors, who are members of the Company are encouraged to attend and vote at the sixteenth AGM of the Company.

16   The Company has availed of services offered by CDSL and NSDL to update e-mail addresses of shareholders of the Company who have
     not registered their e-mail addresses. Members are requested to respond to their messages and register their e-mail id and support the
     green initiative efforts of the Company. Members are also requested to support our commitment to environmental protection by choosing
     to receive the Company’s communication through e-mail going forward.

17   With a view to helping us serve the members better, members who hold shares in identical names and in the same order of names in
     more than one folio are requested to write to the Company to consolidate their holdings in one folio.

18   SEBI, has mandated that the listed companies shall henceforth issue the securities in dematerialised form only, while processing service
     requests such as issue of duplicate share certificates, transmission, transposition, etc. Accordingly, members who still hold share
     certificates in physical form are advised to dematerialise their holdings.

19   In case of joint holders, the member whose name appears as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register of Members of the
     Company will be entitled to vote at the AGM.

20   The Company has been maintaining, inter alia, the following statutory registers at its registered office at Akurdi, Pune-411035, which are
     open for inspection by members in terms of the applicable provisions of the Act, from Monday to Friday from 10.00 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.,
     except holidays:

     i)    Register of Contracts or arrangements in which directors are interested under section 189 of the Act. The said Register shall also
           be produced at the commencement of the AGM of the Company and shall remain open and accessible during the continuance of the
           meeting to any person having the right to attend the meeting.

     ii)   Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding under section 170 of the Act. The said Register shall be
           kept open for inspection at the AGM of the Company and shall be made accessible to any person attending the AGM.

21   Certificate from Secretarial Auditor of the Company certifying that the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2019 of the Company
     is being implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021, will also be
     available for inspection by the members at the AGM.

22   Documents referred to in the Notice and the statement shall be open for inspection by the members at the registered office of the
     Company from Monday to Friday from 10.00 a.m. to 12.30 p.m., except holidays, up to the date of AGM.

23   Pursuant to section 72 of the Act read with SEBI Circular dated 3 November 2021, clarification circular dated 14 December 2021 and
     circular dated 16 March 2023, members holding shares in physical form are advised to file nomination in the prescribed Form SH-13 or
     Form ISR-3 (Declaration to Opt-out).

     The form can be downloaded from the website of the Company at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous and RTA at
     https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/ In respect of shares held in electronic/demat form, the members may please contact their
     respective depository participant.

24   In terms of section 124(5) of the Act, dividend amount for the year ended 31 March 2016 remaining unclaimed for a period of seven years
     shall become due for transfer in August/September 2023 to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the Central
     Government.

     Further, in terms of section 124(6) of the Act, in case of such shareholders whose dividends are unpaid for a continuous period of seven
     years, the corresponding shares shall be transferred to the IEPF demat account.

     Members who have not claimed dividends in respect of the financial years from 2015-16 onwards are requested to approach the
     Company/KFin for claiming the same as early as possible, to avoid transfer of the relevant shares to the IEPF’s demat account.

25   For more details on shareholders’ matters, please refer to the chapter on General Shareholder Information, included in the Annual Report.

26   Members/Proxies are requested to bring the attendance slip/proxy form duly filled and signed for attending the meeting. Proxies are
     requested to bring their identity proof at the meeting for the purpose of identification.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited        3
    Notice




    27     Please note that for security reasons, no article/baggage will be allowed at the venue of the meeting.

    28     Route map for the directions to venue of the meeting is attached.

    29     In case a person has become a member of the Company after dispatch of AGM Notice, but on or before the cut-off date for e-voting, i.e.,
           Tuesday, 18 July 2023, such person may obtain the User ID and Password from KFin by e-mail request on einward.ris@kfintech.com.

    30     Alternatively, member may send signed copy of the request letter providing the e-mail address, mobile number, self-attested PAN copy
           along with client master copy (in case of electronic folio)/copy of share certificate (in case of physical folio) via e-mail at the e-mail id
           einward.ris@kfintech.com for obtaining the Annual Report and Notice of AGM.

    31     Instructions for e-voting and joining the AGM are as follows:

    A.     Voting through electronic means:

           i.     In terms of the provisions of section 108 of the Act, read with rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,
                  2014 as amended (hereinafter called ‘the Rules’ for the purpose of this section of the Notice) and regulation 44 of the Listing
                  Regulations and in terms of SEBI vide circular dated 9 December 2020 in relation to e-voting facility provided by Listed Entities, the
                  members are provided with the remote e-voting facility to exercise votes on the items of business given in the Notice, through the
                  e-voting platform provided by KFin or to vote at the AGM.

           ii.    The members, whose names appear in the Register of Members/list of Beneficial Owners as on Tuesday, 18 July 2023 (end of day),
                  being the cut-off date fixed for determining voting rights of members are entitled to participate in the remote e-voting process.
                  A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for information purpose only.

           iii.   Members can cast their vote online from 22 July 2023 (9.00 a.m.) till 24 July 2023 (5.00 p.m.). Voting beyond the said date shall not
                  be allowed and the remote e-voting facility shall be blocked.

           iv.    Alternatively, members holding securities in physical mode may reach out on toll free number 1800 309 4001 for obtaining User ID
                  and password or may write e-mail from the registered e-mail id to einward.ris@kfintech.com.

           v.     The details of the process and manner for remote e-voting are explained herein below:

    I)     Login method for remote e-voting for individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode

           Pursuant to SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9 December 2020 on “e-voting facility provided by Listed
           Companies”, e-voting process has been enabled to all the individual demat account holders, by way of single login credential, through their
           demat accounts/websites of Depositories/DPs in order to increase the efficiency of the voting process. Individual demat account holders
           would be able to cast their vote without having to register again with the e-voting service provider (ESP) thereby facilitating not only
           seamless authentication but also ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process.

           Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail id with their DPs in order to access e-voting facility.

           Login method for individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:




4        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                              16th Annual Report 2022-23
                                                                                                                                      Notice




    Type of shareholders                     Login method


    Individual shareholders holding          A. Users registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
    securities in demat mode with NSDL       1. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a
                                                personal computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on
                                                the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
                                             2. A new screen will open. Enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication,
                                                you will be able to see e-voting services. Click on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting
                                                services and you will be able to see e-voting page.
                                             3. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - KFintech
                                                and you will be re-directed to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote
                                                during the remote e-voting period.

                                             B. Users not registered for IDeAS e-Services:
                                                Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for
                                                IDeAS” tab or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp and
                                                proceed with completing the required fields i.e. follow steps given in points 1-3 above.

                                             C. By visiting the e-voting website of NSDL:
                                             1. Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the
                                                URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile. Once
                                                the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the “Login” icon, available under
                                                the “Shareholder/Member” section.
                                             2. A new screen will open. Enter your User ID (i.e. your 16-digit demat account number
                                                held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After
                                                successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can
                                                see e-voting page.
                                             3. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider - KFintech
                                                and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during
                                                the remote e-voting period.



    Individual shareholders holding          A. Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest:
    securities in demat mode with CDSL       1. URL to login to Easi/Easiest: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasinew/home/login
                                                or www.cdslindia.com and click on New System Myeasi.
                                             2. Shareholders can login through their User ID and Password. Option will be made available
                                                to reach e-voting page without any further authentication.
                                             3. After successful login on Easi/Easiest, the user will also be able to see the e-voting menu.
                                                The menu will have links of ESPs. Click on KFintech to cast your vote.

                                             B. Users who have not opted for Easi/Easiest:
                                                Option to register for Easi/Easiest is available at
                                                https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasinew/Registration/EasiRegistration and proceed with
                                                completing the required fields.

                                             C. By visiting the e-voting website of CDSL:
                                             1. The user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat account number and PAN
                                                No. from a link in www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by
                                                sending OTP on registered mobile & e-mail as recorded in the demat account.
                                             2. After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESPs i.e.
                                                KFintech where the e-voting is in progress.



    Individual shareholders (holding         1.   Shareholders can also login using the login credentials of their demat account through
    securities in demat mode) logging             their Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility. Once logged-
    through their depository participants         in, you will be able to see e-voting option.
                                             2.   Once you click on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site
                                                  after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
                                             3.   Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider- KFintech
                                                  and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during
                                                  the remote e-voting period.


    Important Note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password option
    available at respective websites.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited          5
    Notice




            Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode who need assistance for any technical issues related to login
            through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:

            Members facing any technical issue - NSDL                                Members facing any technical issue - CDSL


            Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL             Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL
            helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call on toll      helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com
            free no.: 1800 1020 990 or 1800 224 430.                                 or contact on 022- 23058738 or 022-23058542-43.


    II)     Login method for remote e-voting for shareholders other than individual shareholders holding securities in demat
            mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode

            i.      Initial password is provided in the body of the e-mail.

            ii.     Launch internet browser and type the URL: https://evoting.kfintech.com in the address bar.

            iii.    Enter the login credentials i.e. User ID and Password mentioned in your e-mail. Your Folio No./DP ID Client ID will be your User ID.
                    However, if you are already registered with KFin for e-voting, you can use your existing User ID and password for casting your votes.

            iv.     After entering the correct details, click on LOGIN.

            v.      You will reach the password change menu wherein you are required to mandatorily change your password. The new password shall
                    comprise minimum 8 characters with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9) and a special
                    character (@,#,$,etc.). It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep
                    your password confidential.

            vi.     You need to login again with the new credentials.

            vii.    On successful login, the system will prompt you to select the EVENT i.e. Bajaj Auto Ltd.

            viii.   On the voting page, the number of shares (which represents the number of votes) held by you as on the cut-off date will appear.
                    If you desire to cast all the votes assenting/dissenting to the resolution, enter all shares and click ‘FOR’/‘AGAINST’ as the case may
                    be or partially in ‘FOR’ and partially in ‘AGAINST’, but the total number in ‘FOR’ and/or ‘AGAINST’ taken together should not exceed
                    your total shareholding as on the cut-off date. You may also choose the option ‘ABSTAIN’, in which case, the shares held will not be
                    counted under either head.

            ix.     Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall choose the voting process separately for each folio/demat account.

            x.      Cast your votes by selecting an appropriate option and click on ‘SUBMIT’. A confirmation box will be displayed. Click ‘OK’ to confirm,
                    else ‘CANCEL’ to modify. Once you confirm, you will not be allowed to modify your vote subsequently. During the voting period, you
                    can login multiple times till you have confirmed that you have voted on the resolution.

            xi.     Corporate/institutional members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned image (PDF/JPG format) of
                    certified true copy of relevant board resolution/authority letter etc. together with attested specimen signature of the duly authorised
                    signatory(ies) who is/are authorised to vote, to the Scrutinizer through email at cssdlimaye@gmail.com and may also upload the
                    same in the e-voting module in their login. The scanned image of the above documents should be in the naming format
                    ‘BAL_EVENT No.’

            xii.    In case of any queries/grievances, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and e-voting user manual
                    available at the ‘download’ section of https://evoting.kfintech.com or call KFin on 1800-309-4001(toll free).

    B.      Voting facility at AGM:

            i.      In addition to the remote e-voting facility as described above, the Company shall make a voting facility available at the venue of
                    the AGM, through electronic voting system and members attending the meeting, who have not already cast their votes by remote
                    e-voting, shall be able to exercise their right at the meeting.

            ii.     However, members who have voted through remote e-voting will be eligible to attend the AGM, but shall not be entitled to cast their
                    vote again.

    C.      Live Webcast of AGM:

            Pursuant to regulation 44(6) of the Listing Regulations, as amended, the Company is providing facility of one-way live webcast of the
            proceedings of AGM. Members who are entitled to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of AGM by logging on the e-voting
            website of KFin at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ using their secure login credentials, provided for e-voting. Members are encouraged to
            use this facility of webcast.

6         Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                              16th Annual Report 2022-23
                                                                                                                                            Notice




D.    General Instructions:

     i.     The Board of Directors has appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572) as the
            Scrutinizer to the remote e-voting process and voting at the venue of the AGM in a fair and transparent manner.

     ii.    The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast at the meeting, thereafter
            unblock the votes through e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses, not in the employment of the Company and make
            a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman of the Company, who shall
            countersign the same.

     iii.   The Scrutinizer shall submit his report to the Chairman or in his absence Managing Director and CEO of the Company, who shall
            declare the result of the voting. The results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s report shall be placed on the Company’s website
            https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/disclosures and on the website of KFin https://evoting.kfintech.com and shall also be
            communicated to the Stock Exchanges. The resolutions shall be deemed to be passed at the AGM of the Company.

32   Dividend related information:

     Shareholders may note that as per Income Tax Act, 1961, (the ‘IT Act’) as amended by the Finance Act, 2020, dividends paid or distributed
     by a Company after 1 April 2020 shall be taxable in the hands of shareholders. The Company is also required to deduct Tax at Source
     (‘TDS’) in respect of approved payment of dividend to its shareholders (resident as well as non-resident).

     To enable compliance with TDS requirements, members holding shares in electronic mode are requested to complete and/or update their
     Residential Status, PAN, Category as per the IT Act with their Depository Participants and in case shares are held in physical form, with the
     Company, by sending documents by 10 July 2023 (upto 5.30 p.m.).

     For the detailed process and formats of declaration, please refer to FAQs on Tax Deduction at Source on Dividends available on the
     Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/dividend

     A detailed communication dated 12 June 2023 in this regard has already been sent to the shareholders and also uploaded on the
     Company’s website at the said link.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited        7
    Notice




                                                      ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE

    BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTORS SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING PURSUANT TO
    REGULATION 36(3) OF THE LISTING REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS OF THE ACT

    Item No. 3 of the Notice

    Niraj Ramkrishna Bajaj (DIN 00028261)

    As regards re-appointment of Niraj Ramkrishna Bajaj referred to in Item No. 3 of the Notice, the following disclosures are made for the
    information of the shareholders:

    Information about the appointee:

    Brief resume

    Niraj Ramkrishna Bajaj’s (born on 10 October 1954) career spans more than 37 years. He did his B.Com. from Sydenham College of Commerce
    and Economics, Mumbai. He acquired his Masters in Business Administration from Harvard Business School, Boston, U.S.A.

    Niraj Ramkrishna Bajaj is Chairman of Bajaj Auto Ltd. He is also the Chairman and Managing Director of Mukand Ltd. and
    Vice Chairman of Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.

    He was the President of the Indian Merchants’ Chamber, a decade ago, when it was celebrating its Centenary Year. He was also the President of
    the Alloy Steel Producer’s Association and Indian Stainless Steel Development Association.

    He represented India in table tennis for seven years between 1970-77, of which last four years was as the captain. He has been three-times All-
    India Table Tennis Champion and ranked India No.1, four times. He is the recipient of Arjuna Award, India’s highest Sport’s honour,
    Shiv Chhatrapati Award, Maharashtra’s highest Sport’s honour and Maharashtra Gaurav Puraskar Award.

    Major Directorships:

    1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
    2.     Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.
    3.     Mukand Ltd.
    4.     Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
    5.     Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
    6.     Jeewan Ltd.

    *Committee Chairmanship: Nil

    *Committee Memberships:

    1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.

    *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

    Shareholding in the Company: 7,19,022

    Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Commercial, Purchase and Supply Chain, Insurance, Mutual Fund,
    Financial Services, Regulatory, Government and Security matters and such other areas.

    He has been associated as non-executive director on the Board of erstwhile Bajaj Auto Ltd. since 2006 and his last drawn remuneration during
    the financial year 2022-23 was H 38.50 lakh. More details about his remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for
    payment of sitting fees and commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

    Niraj Ramkrishna Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

    Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
    Governance Report.

    He is no related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

    None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Madhur Bajaj and Niraj Ramkrishna Bajaj himself, are concerned or
    interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

    The Board commends item no. 3 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

8        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
                                                                                                                                           Notice




Item No. 4 of the Notice

Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (DIN 00014615)

As regards re-appointment of Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj, referred to in Item No. 4 of the Notice, following disclosures are made for the
information of the shareholders:

Information about the appointee:

Brief resume

Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (born on 2 November 1969) is B.E. (Mech), first class with distinction from the University of Pune, Master’s
degree in manufacturing systems engineering with distinction from the University of Warwick, UK and MBA with distinction from Harvard
Business School, USA.

He was the Executive Director of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (upto 31 March 2012), having headed Finance and Control, Legal and International business
functions of Bajaj Auto over different periods from 1994 until 2012 and currently is its non-executive director.

He is the Chairman of Bajaj Finance Ltd., Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd., Maharashtra Scooters Ltd., Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Company Ltd.,
Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd., Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd., and Chairman and Managing Director of Bajaj Finserv
Ltd., the holding company of the financial services businesses of the Bajaj Group, one of India’s oldest and largest conglomerates.

He is the Managing Director and CEO of:

1.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
2.   Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.

Major Directorships:

1.   Bajaj Auto Ltd.
2.   Bajaj Finance Ltd.
3.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
4.   Bajaj Holdings and Investment Ltd.
5.   Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.
6.   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
7.   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
8.   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.

He is the President of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) for 2022-23. He is a member of the Steering Committee appointed by the
Government of India for B20 as part of India’s G20 Presidency FY 2022-23.

He is an alumnus of the Harvard Business School, USA. A Member of the Board of the Indian School of Business (ISB), a Member of the
International Advisory Board (IAB), Allianz SE and the International Technology Advisory Panel (ITAP) of Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS)
and the Regional Stewardship Board for India and South Asia 2019-2020 of the World Economic Forum. Over the years, he has been lauded with
several prestigious honours for his contribution to the financial services space, including:

l    AIMA’s Transformational Business Leader
l    AIMA’s Entrepreneur of the year 2019
l    Economic Times Business Leader of the year 2018
l    Financial Express Best Banker of the year 2017
l    Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the year in 2017
l    Transformational Leader award at the 5th Asia Business Responsibility Summit in 2017
l    Business World’s Most Valuable CEOs in India for 2015 and 2016

*Committee Chairmanship: Nil

*Committee Memberships:

1.   Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
2.   Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.
3.   Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
4.   Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
5.   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
6.   Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Ltd.

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited          9
     Notice




     Shareholding in the Company: 18,18,020*

     *includes 10,48,796 shares held as executor for the Estate of Late Rahul Bajaj.

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Operations and Engineering,
     Information Technology, Human Resources, International business, Insurance, Mutual Fund and Financial Services, Banking, Investment and
     Treasury and Forex Management, Corporate Governance and Ethics and such other areas.

     He was first appointed on the Board with effect from 2 May 2007 and his last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2022-23 was
     H 24.50 lakh. More details about the remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fee and
     commission, as payable to other non-executive directors of the Company.

     Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

     Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
     Governance Report.

     He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company except Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj.

     None of the Directors, or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives, except Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj and Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj
     himself, are concerned or interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

     The Board commends item no. 4 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

     Item No.5 of the Notice

     Madhur Bajaj (DIN 00014593)

     As regards re-appointment of Madhur Bajaj referred to in Item No. 5 of the Notice, the following disclosures are made for the information of the
     shareholders:

     The members of the Company at the annual general meeting held on 26 July 2022 approved the re-appointment of Madhur Bajaj, as
     non-executive Vice Chairman, being liable to retire by rotation. He is now retiring by rotation in terms of Section 152(6) of the Act and being
     eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.

     With his long association with the Company in various capacities including in the capacity of Whole-time Director and Vice Chairman, right since
     1986, it is desirable that his services continue to be available to the Company on various matters as and when required.

     In consideration of the services that will continue to be rendered by him at the request of the Company from time to time in his capacity as
     non-executive Vice Chairman and taking into account his over 3 decades contribution to the Company and in order to facilitate him to render
     such services as will be beneficial for the Company, the Board at its meeting held on 14 March 2023 decided that in addition to the commission
     and sitting fee as may be payable to him for attending the Board meetings as non-executive director, he may continue to be extended the
     following facilities during his tenure as Vice Chairman of the Company from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2026:

     A – Car with driver
     B – Corporate Guest House facilities

     Information about the appointee:

     Brief resume

     Madhur Bajaj (born on 19 August 1952) graduated in commerce from Sydenham College, Bombay, in 1973, and did his MBA from the
     International Institute of Management Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1979.

     Having more than 30 years of experience in Auto, Consumer Durables and Financial Services, Madhur Bajaj is the recipient of the ‘Vikas Rattan
     Award’ from the International Friendship Society of India, for enhancing human life and outstanding achievements.

     He previously occupied the position of President of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries & Agriculture, President for Industries
     Association of Pune and President of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.

     He is also serving as the National Council Member of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).

     Directorships:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd. – Vice Chairman
     2.     Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
     4.     Bajaj Electricals Ltd.

10        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                            16th Annual Report 2022-23
                                                                                                                                             Notice




*Committee Chairmanship & Membership: Nil

*Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

Shareholding in the Company: 10,02,552

Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Automobile Engineering and Project
Management, Infrastructure and Real Estate, CSR, Sustainability and NGO matters.

He was first appointed on the Board of erstwhile Bajaj Auto Ltd. with effect from 6 November 1995. He has been non-executive Vice Chairman
of the Company since 2017 and his last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2022-23 was H 24.50 lakh. More details about his
remuneration are available in the Annual Report. He will be eligible for payment of sitting fees and commission, as payable to other
non-executive directors of the Company.

Madhur Bajaj is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Niraj Ramkrishna Bajaj, and Madhur Bajaj himself, are concerned or
interested financially or otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

The Board commends item no. 5 for consideration and approval of the shareholders.

Statement under section 102 of the Act and regulation 36(3) of the Listing Regulations

Item no. 6 of the Notice

Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670)

As regards re-appointment of Rakesh Sharma referred to in Item No. 6 of the Notice, the following disclosures are made for the information of
the shareholders:

At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company held on 25 April 2023, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, Rakesh Sharma, was re-appointed as the Whole-time Director with the designation as Executive Director of the Company for
a period of five years with effect from 1 January 2024 on the terms of remuneration mentioned herein below, with powers to the Board to
make such variation or increase therein as may be thought fit from time to time, but within the ceiling/s laid down in the Act or any statutory
amendment or relaxation thereof:

1.   Salary & Perquisites

     Remuneration (CTC) of H 11.60 crore per annum comprising salary, allowances, retirals, bonus, performance reward, perquisites, benefits
     etc., with such annual increments / increases / revisions as may be decided by the board of directors from time to time and will also be
     subject to an overall CTC ceiling of H 25 crore per annum.

     Perquisites and benefits referred to above would include the following:

     i.      Company’s contribution to provident fund and superannuation fund as per Company rules.
     ii.     Gratuity as per Company rules.
     iii.    Leave with full pay as per the rules of the Company, with encashment of unavailed leave being allowed.
     iv.     Cover of Insurance policies & Contribution to Employee Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme as per Company rules.
     v.      Cost of insurance cover against the risk of any financial liability or loss because of any error of judgement, wrongful act or such
             other reason as may be approved by the board of directors from time to time.
     vi.     Club membership as per eligibility under Company scheme.
     vii.    Reimbursement of entertainment expenses incurred in the course of business of the Company.
     viii.   Provision of Company car lease plan as per eligibility under the Company scheme.
     ix.     Telephone, tele-fax and other communication facilities at Company’s cost as per Company rules.
     x.      Subject to any statutory ceiling/s, the Executive Director may be given any other allowances, perquisites, benefits and facilities as
             the board of directors from time to time may decide.



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        11
     Notice




     2.     Valuation of perquisites

            Perquisites / Allowances shall be valued as per Income-tax Rules, wherever applicable, and in the absence of any such rules, shall be
            valued at actual cost.

     3.     Stock Options

            Stock Options as per the scheme(s) framed by the Company from time to time.

     4.     Minimum remuneration

            In the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during the tenure of the appointment, the Executive Director shall be
            paid remuneration by way of salary and perquisites as set out above, as minimum remuneration, subject to restrictions, if any, set out in
            schedule V to the Act, from time to time.

     5.     Computation of ceiling

            The following shall not be included in the computation of perquisites for the purposes of the ceiling:
            a)   Contribution to provident and superannuation funds referred to in para 2 (i) above.
            b)   Gratuity payable as per para 2 (ii), to the extent of half a month’s salary for each completed year of service.
            c)   Encashment of leave as per para 2 (iii) above
     Information about the appointee:

     Brief resume

     Rakesh Sharma (born on 22 November 1962) is Executive Director on the Board of Bajaj Auto Ltd. He is responsible for leading the business
     verticals of Motorcycles, Intracity Commercial Vehicles, International Business and Auto Finance.

     Prior to joining Bajaj Auto Ltd., he worked for over 20 years with the British ICI Group in multiple roles. He is a commerce (Honours) graduate
     from the Delhi University and an M.B.A from IIM, Ahmedabad.

     Directorships:

     1.     Bajaj Auto Ltd.
     2.     Chetak Technology Ltd.
     3.     Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.

     *Committee Chairmanship & Membership: Nil

     *Chairmanship and membership of audit committee and stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered.

     Shareholding in the Company: 6,246

     Nature of expertise in specific functional areas: Management and Strategy, Global Business Leadership, Operations and Engineering,
     Automobile Engineering and Project Management and such other areas.

     He joined the Board of the Company on 1 January 2019. The members at the AGM held in July 2019, approved his appointment as Whole-time
     Director for a period of 5 years effective from 1 April 2019 until 31 December 2023. Since the term would be ending on 31 December 2023,
     the Board at its meeting held on 25 April 2023, based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, recommended
     the re-appointment of Rakesh Sharma for another term of 5 years effective from 1 January 2024 for prior approval of the members.

     His last drawn remuneration during the financial year 2022-23 was H 10.37 crore. More details about his remuneration are available in the
     Annual Report.

     Rakesh Sharma is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

     This resolution is being proposed as a special resolution in view of the relevant provisions of Schedule V of the Act requiring a special resolution
     for payment of minimum remuneration in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits.

     The agreement entered into by the Company with Rakesh Sharma laying down, inter alia, the terms of remuneration, powers etc. would be
     accordingly renewed effective 1 January 2024.




12        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
                                                                                                                                          Notice




Disclosures of his relationship inter-se with other directors and on the number of Board meetings attended by him are given in the Corporate
Governance Report.

He is not related to any key managerial personnel of the Company.

None of the directors, or key managerial personnel or their relatives, except Rakesh sharma himself, is concerned or interested, financially or
otherwise, except to the extent of his respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.

The Board recommends the special resolution set out in item no. 6 for approval by shareholders.


By order of the Board of Directors
For Bajaj Auto Ltd.




Dr. J Sridhar
Company Secretary
Membership No. F1760
Pune: 25 April 2023




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited        13
                  FROM TALEGOAN TOLL PLAZA TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD. (PUNE) VIA SOMATANE PHATA @ 17 KM.
                                                                                                                                                             BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH
                  FROM TALEGOAN TOLL PLAZA TO MARRIOTT HOTEL (PUNE) VIA BANER ROAD @ 30 KM.                                                                MUMBAI-PUNE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                           AKURDI, PUNE-411035
                                                                                                                    TAKE A SERVICE ROAD
                                                                                                        NIGDI
                                                                                                     OCTROI POST          SRIKRISHNA
                                                   SOMATANE                                                                 TEMPLE
                                                     PHATA
                          OLD MUMBAI - PUNE ROAD
                                                                                                                                             NIGDI CHOWK                                  TAKE A RIGHT TURN
                                                               TOLL PLAZA                          BHAKTI-SHAKTI                                                                          BELOW THE FLYOVER
                                                                                                      SHILP                                                                              UNIVERSITY
                                                                                                                                                                                           CIRCLE

                                                                                                                                                                                                            S.B. R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OAD
                       TAKE A LEFT TURN
                     TO SOMATANE PHATA                                                                                                                 TAKE A SERVICE ROAD
                                                                                                                                HINJEWADI              JUST BEFORE FLYOVER
                      FOR BAJAJ AUTO LTD.                                                                                        FLYOVER                                                 SADANAND
                   - 3KM. FROM TOLL PLAZA                                                                                         ABOVE                  OCTROI POST                      RESORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                MARRIOTT
                                                                                       MUMBAI-BANGALORE EXPRESS WAY                                                                                           PUNE HOTEL &
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONVENTIONAL CENTRE
                                             GO STRAIGHT FOR
                            BAI              MARRIOTT HOTEL                                                           WAKAD                             BALEWADI ORCHID                                    SENAPATI BAPAT ROAD
                        MUM                                                                                           FLYOVER                            SPORTS   VITS                                        PUNE - 411053
                   FROM         TALEGOAN                                                                                                                COMPLEX
                               TOLL PLAZA




                  FROM MARRIOTT HOTEL, PUNE TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD. @ 18 KM. & BACK TO HOTEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH




                                                                                              AD
                                                           CHATURSHRINGI




                                                                                            RO
                                                                                           R
                                                              TEMPLE




                                                                                        NE

                                                                            NCL ROAD
                                                                                       BA
                                                         S.B. RO
                            MARRIOTT                            AD                         AD
                          PUNE HOTEL &                                             AUNDH RO   BREMEN
                                                                                              CHOWK
                       CONVENTIONAL CENTRE                       AD           UNIVERSITY
                       SENAPATI BAPAT ROAD                   D RO               CIRCLE         SPICER COLLEGE
                          PUNE - 411053              SHKHIN
                                                GANE
                                                                                  Dr. BABASAHEB          BHAU PATIL ROAD
                                                                                    AMBEDKAR
                                                                                       CHOWK                                                                 TAKE A SERVICE ROAD
                                                                                                                                RAILWAY BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                             JUST BEFORE FLYOVER                      RATNALOK
                                                                                                                                                                                         KHANDOBA       HOTEL                 NIGDI
                                                                                                                                                               PREMIUM GREAVES             CHOWK                             CHOWK
                                                                                                                                OLD MUMBAI-PUNE ROAD
                                                                                                   BOPODI CHOWK            HARRIS BRIDGE                                          STAR    KHANDOBA
                                                                                                                                                                                 BAZAR      TEMPLE

                                                               FROM MUMBAI TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD.                              FROM MARRIOTT PUNE HOTELS & CONVENTIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                         BAJAJ AUTO LTD.




Scan using the


google lens for
                                                               MUMBAI PUNE ROAD, AKURDI PUNE-411035                        CENTRE TO BAJAJ AUTO LTD. AKURDI, PUNE-411035




camera app for
iOS devices and

android devices
                                                               FROM MUMBAI TO MARRIOTT                                                                                                                 MUMBAI-PUNE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                       AKURDI, PUNE-411035
                                                               PUNE HOTELS & CONVENTIONAL CENTRE
16th ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23


                                                                                                                                             BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
                                                                                                                                             (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
                                                                                                                                             Registered office:
                                                                                                                                             Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
                                                                                                                                             E-mail: investors@bajajauto.co.in
                                                                                                                                             Website: www.bajajauto.com
                                                                                                                                             Phone: (020)66107868, Fax: (020)27407380




                                                                              PROXY FORM
                                                                                 Form No. MGT-11
                 [Pursuant to section 105(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 19(3) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014]


CIN                                                    :     L65993PN2007PLC130076
Name of the Company                                    :     BAJAJ AUTO LTD.
Registered office                                      :     Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035

Name of the member(s)                                  :     ___________________________________________________________________________________________
Registered address                                     :     ___________________________________________________________________________________________
E-mail ID                                              :     ___________________________________________________________________________________________
Folio No/Client ID/DP ID                               :     ___________________________________________________________________________________________

I/We, being the member(s) of ______________ shares of the above named Company, hereby appoint:
(1)     Name        : _____________________________                      Address          : ____________________________________
        E-mail ID : _____________________________                        Signature        : ____________________________________                     or failing him

(2)     Name        : _____________________________                      Address          : ____________________________________
        E-mail ID : _____________________________                        Signature        : ____________________________________

as my/our proxy to attend and vote (on poll) for me/us and on my/our behalf at the SIXTEENTH annual general meeting of the Company, to be
held on Tuesday, 25 July 2023 at 2.00 p.m. at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 and at any adjournment thereof in respect of such
resolutions as are indicated below:

 Item
  No.     Description                                                                                                                                       For       Against


          Ordinary Business
  1       Adoption of financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2023 and Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon
  2       Declaration of dividend of H 140 per equity share, for the year ended 31 March 2023
  3       Re-appointment of Niraj Bajaj, who retires by rotation
  4       Re-appointment of Sanjiv Bajaj, who retires by rotation
  5       Re-appointment of Madhur Bajaj, who retires by rotation Special Business before point no. 6. and fit this in the first table itself.


          Special Business
  6       Re-appointment of Rakesh Sharma as Whole-time Director of the Company for a period of five years with effect from 1 January 2024




  Signed this_______ day of _________ 2023


                          Affix
                        revenue
                         stamp
                         of H 1

           Signature of shareholder                                                                                         Signature of Proxy holder(s)

Notes:
1. This form of proxy in order to be effective should be duly completed, signed, stamped and deposited at the Registered Office of the
   Company, not less than 48 hours before the commencement of the Meeting.
2. As provided under regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, shareholder may
   vote either for or against each resolution.
    BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
    (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
                                                     ATTENDANCE SLIP
    Registered office:
    Mumbai–Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
    E-mail: investors@bajajauto.co.in
    Website: www.bajajauto.com
    Phone: (020) 66107868, Fax: (020) 27407380                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23

    Reg. Folio No./DP Id No./Client Id No.:                      Folio No./DP Id No./Client Id No.

    Name & Address :                                             Name
                                                                 Add 1
                                                                 Add 2
                                                                 Add 3
                                                                 Add 4
                                                                 PIN

    Name(s) of Joint Member(s),if any :                          Joint Holder 1
                                                                 Joint Holder 2

    No. of Shares held :                                         Shares




    I/We certify that I/we am/are member(s)/proxy for the member(s) of the Company.

    I/We hereby record my/our presence at the SIXTEENTH annual general meeting of the Company on
    Tuesday, 25 July 2023 at 2.00 p.m. at the registered office of the Company at Mumbai-Pune Road,
    Akurdi, Pune 411 035.




                                                                     Signature of First holder/Proxy/Authorised Representative




                                                                                                        Signature of Joint holder(s)


    Place:
    Date:

    Notes:
    1. Please sign this attendance slip and hand it over at the meeting venue.
    2. Only shareholders of the Company and/or their Proxy will be allowed to attend the Meeting.




                                                        E-VOTING
                            Users who wish to opt for e-voting may use the following login credentials:

          EVEN (E-VOTING EVENT NO.)                            USER ID                                   PASSWORD




Notes:
l     Please follow steps for e-voting procedure as given in the Notice of AGM by logging on to -
      https://evoting.kfintech.com

l     Instructions for e-voting procedure are available in the Notice of annual general meeting.
BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
16th ANNUAL REPORT 2022-23




CONTENTS
NON-FINANCIALS

Board of                    Management   Chairman’s
Directors                    Team         Letter
  Page 2                       Page 4      Page 7




Management                   Corporate    General
Discussion and               Governance   Shareholder
Analysis                                  Information
  Page 9                       Page 33     Page 57



                             FINANCIALS

Directors’                   Standalone   Consolidated
Report                       Financial    Financial
(including Annual Report     Statements   Statements
on CSR activities)

  Page 73                      Page 103    Page 187
Board of Directors                     Duplicate Share Certificate          Company Secretary
                                       Issuance Committee
Niraj Bajaj, Chairman                                                       Dr. J Sridhar
Madhur Bajaj, Vice Chairman            Rajiv Bajaj, Chairman
Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director & CEO   Pradeep Shrivastava                  Company Secretary-Designate
Sanjiv Bajaj                           Rakesh Sharma
Shekhar Bajaj (upto 30 June 2022)                                           Rajiv Gandhi
D J Balaji Rao                         Management
Pradeep Shrivastava,                                                        Auditors
Executive Director                     Rajiv Bajaj
Dr. Naushad Forbes                     Managing Director & CEO              S R B C & CO LLP
Anami N. Roy                                                                Chartered Accountants
Rakesh Sharma, Executive Director      Pradeep Shrivastava
Ms. Lila Poonawalla                    Executive Director                   Secretarial Auditor
Pradip Shah
Abhinav Bindra                         Rakesh Sharma                        Shyamprasad D Limaye
                                       Executive Director                   Practising Company Secretary
Audit Committee
                                       Abraham Joseph                       Bankers
Anami N. Roy, Chairman                 Chief Technology Officer
D J Balaji Rao                                                              State Bank of India
Dr. Naushad Forbes                     S Ravikumar                          Citibank N A
Pradip Shah                            Chief Business Development Officer   Standard Chartered Bank
                                                                            ICICI Bank
Stakeholders’ Relationship             Dinesh Thapar                        HDFC Bank
Committee                              Chief Financial Officer              HSBC Bank
                                                                            Axis Bank
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman               Ravi Kyran Ramasamy                  Central Bank of India
Niraj Bajaj                            Chief Human Resources Officer
Ms. Lila Poonawalla                                                         Registered under the
                                       Amitabh Lal Das                      Companies Act, 1956
Nomination & Remuneration              General Counsel
Committee                                                                   Registered Office
                                       Sarang Kanade
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman               President (Motorcycle Business)      Mumbai-Pune Road,
Niraj Bajaj                                                                 Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
Dr. Naushad Forbes                     Samardeep Subandh
Abhinav Bindra                         President (Intra-City Business)      CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076

Corporate Social Responsibility        Kevin D’sa                           Works
Committee                              President (Retail Finance)
                                                                            •   Mumbai-Pune Road,
Rajiv Bajaj, Chairman                  K S Grihapathy                           Akurdi, Pune 411 035.
Pradeep Shrivastava                    President (Export Business)
Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                          •   Bajaj Nagar,
                                       Eric Vas                                 Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136.
Risk Management Committee              President (Urbanite Business)
                                                                            •   Chakan Industrial Area,
Anami N. Roy, Chairman                 Sumeet Narang                            Chakan, Pune 410 501.
D J Balaji Rao                         President (Probiking Business)
Rakesh Sharma                                                               •   Plot No.2, Sector 10,
                                       C P Tripathi                             IIE Pantnagar, Udhamsinghnagar,
                                       Advisor (CSR)                            Uttarakhand 263 531
Niraj R. Bajaj
Chairman
Board of      Management    Chairman’s    Management Discussion   Corporate     General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team          Letter        and Analysis            Governance    Information            Report       Financials




            MANAGEMENT
            TEAM




                            Rajiv Bajaj                  Pradeep Shrivastava                              Rakesh Sharma




                     Abraham Joseph                               S Ravikumar                              Dinesh Thapar




  4    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis            Governance     Information           Report        Financials




               Ravi Kyran Ramasamy                           Amitabh Lal Das                              Sarang Kanade




                Samardeep Subandh                                   Kevin D’sa                             K S Grihapathy




                               Eric Vas                       Sumeet Narang                                    C P Tripathi




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                             Bajaj Auto Limited     5
Board of      Management    Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate    General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team          Letter       and Analysis            Governance   Information            Report       Financials




  6    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                           16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis             Governance     Information           Report       Financials




                                  CHAIRMAN’S
                                  LETTER
                                  Dear Shareholder,
                                  In my last year’s letter to you, I had written, “I have never seen…
                                  such a… sheer scarcity of semiconductors. No modern automobile
                                  can exist without a slew of semiconductor chips. Motorcycles and
                                  top-of-the-line electric vehicles like the Chetak are no exceptions.
                                  It is difficult to predict when this supply scarcity will end.”
                                  Thankfully, this terrible supply scarcity was over by the end of the
                                  first quarter of FY2023. Thereafter, your Company was all set to
                                  increase substantially production and sales.

                                  Except for one hiccup — exports. Your Company is by far the
                                  leading exporter of motorcycles and three-wheelers. In FY2022,
                                  exports accounted for 52.7% of Bajaj Auto’s net sales. Thanks to a
                                  host of factors completely outside your Company’s control,
                                  exports dropped both in volume and in value. Political and
                                  economic uncertainties in several major importing countries such
                                  as Nigeria, Egypt, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh; demonetisation in
                                  Nigeria; unavailability of US dollars in the hands of importers; and
                                  more. Bajaj Auto was not the only company that was affected.
                                  All exporters were.

                                  Under the circumstances, your Company consciously decided to
                                  ‘bite the bullet’ and reduce its exposure in some of its key
                                  international markets. The rationale: we are in the business to
                                  generate revenues and profits, not receivables.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited    7
Board of        Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder      Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter          and Analysis             Governance     Information              Report       Financials




            Even so, your Company has generated excellent results. Let me share these with you.

            1. Highest Ever:
               l   Net sales: H 35,359 crore.
               l   Total operating income: H 36,428 crore.
               l   Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA): H 6,551 crore.
               l   Profit before tax (PBT): H 7,409 crore.
               l   Profit after tax (PAT): H 5,628 crore.
            2. Operating EBITDA margin remains healthy at 18%
            3. Return on operating capital employed (ROCE) grew from 214% in FY2022 to 309% in FY2023.
            4. Surplus cash and cash equivalent as on 31 March 2023 was H 17,445 crore after a dividend payout
               of H 4,051 crore and buy-back of equity shares and tax there-on of H 3,094 crore.

            Once again, congratulations are in order to Shri Rajiv Bajaj, your Managing Director, his entire
            management team and all employees.

            Given the quality and commitment of management across your Company, the wide range of products in
            various markets and geographies, and the quest for profitable growth, I see no reason why
            The World’s Favourite Indian shall not grow even further. Neither should you.

            This is my second year as your Chairman, and I have to fill the very large shoes of Shri Rahul Bajaj.
            I seek your good wishes and offer you the same.


            Thank you for your support.

            Yours sincerely,




            Niraj Bajaj
            Chairman
            25 April 2023




  8    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis          Governance        Information           Report       Financials




                      MANAGEMENT
                      DISCUSSION
                      AND ANALYSIS
                Thankfully, 2022-23 (FY2023) saw the effects of Covid abate significantly, with citizens as well
                as businesses finally reverting to normalcy. However, the flip side was the impact of inflationary
                trends, supply chain disruptions emanating from China, and the Russia-Ukraine conflict
                impacting commodity prices. India’s retail, or consumer price, inflation remained high and for
                much of the year was above 6%. To combat this, the RBI regularly raised its policy repo rate,
                starting May 2022, with cumulative increase being 250 basis points. In addition, thanks to
                higher global commodity prices and depreciation of the Indian rupee, the current account
                deficit increased.

                However, despite these critical challenges, India emerged as the fastest growing major economy
                in the world. The second advance estimate of national income released by the Central Statistics
                office (CSO) on 28 February 2023 expects real GDP growth in to be 7.0%; and that of gross value
                added to be 6.6%

                Given this overall macroeconomic scenario, it needs to be asked how has Bajaj Auto fared?




                                    Highest ever figures in the history of Bajaj Auto


                             `35,359                `36,428                 `6,551                 `6,229
                               crore                 crore                   crore                  crore




                               10.0%                  9.9%                  24.5%                   25.0%




                             Net Sales              Operating               EBITDA                Operating
                                                     Income                                         Profit




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited    9
Board of      Management    Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate    General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team          Letter       and Analysis          Governance   Information            Report       Financials




            BAJAJ AUTO’S
            FINANCIAL
            PERFORMANCE
            FOR FY2023




10     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                         16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis          Governance   Information           Report       Financials




                                                1. Records highest ever:
                                                   l  Net sales: J 35,359 crore.
                                                   l  Total operating income: J 36,428 crore.
                                                   l  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,
                                                      and amortisation (EBITDA): J 6,551 crore.
                                                   l  Profit before tax (PBT): J 7,409 crore.
                                                   l  Profit after tax (PAT): J 5,628 crore.

                                                2. Operating EBITDA margin remains healthy at 18%.


                                                3. Return on operating capital employed: 309%.


                                                4. Surplus cash and cash equivalent as on
                                                   31 March 2023 at J 17,445 crore, after dividend
                                                   pay-out of J 4,051 crore and buy-back of equity
                                                   shares and tax thereon of J 3,094 crore.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited    11
Board of                           Management                         Chairman’s                      Management Discussion Corporate                                           General Shareholder                       Directors’
Directors                          Team                               Letter                          and Analysis          Governance                                          Information                               Report                                     Financials




            Charts A and B plot the Company’s financial performance




                                                                                                      Chart A: EBITDA and EBITDA%


                                                                                                                  EBITDA                        EBITDA%




                                                    7000                                                                                                                                                              24
                                                                                                                                      21.8 21.3
                                                    6500             21.7                                         21.2                                                                                                22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EBITDA (% of total operating income)
                                                                                  20.4       20.2                                                         19.8
                                                    6000                                                                                                                                                              20
                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.0
                                                    5500                                                19.6                19.8                                      17.1 17.0 17.8                                  18
                                                    5000
              EBITDA (H In Crore)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16
                                                    4500                                                                                                                                          15.9
                                                    4000              13.6                                                                                                                                            14
                                                    3500                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                    3000                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                    2500                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                    2000                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                    1500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                    1000
                                                     500                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                       0                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                             FY2009

                                                                         FY2010

                                                                                   FY2011

                                                                                             FY2012

                                                                                                         FY2013

                                                                                                                   FY2014

                                                                                                                             FY2015

                                                                                                                                       FY2016

                                                                                                                                                 FY2017

                                                                                                                                                           FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                     FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                               FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                         FY2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                   FY2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                             FY2023




                                                        Chart B: Total Operating Income, Operating Profit and PAT


                                                            Total Operating Income                                               Operating Profit                                       PAT



                                                    40000                                                                                                  7000
                                                                                                                                                           6500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Operating Profit and PAT (H In Crore)
              Total Operating Income (H In Crore)




                                                    36000
                                                                                                                                                           6000
                                                    32000                                                                          5,100                   5500
                                                                                                                                         4,555       5,628
                                                                                                                                                           5000
                                                    28000
                                                                                                                                               5,019       4500
                                                                                                            3,930             4,675
                                                    24000                                                                                                  4000
                                                                                                                        4,068
                                                    20000                            3,004
                                                                                                3,243             3,828                                    3500
                                                                               3,340                                                                       3000
                                                    16000                                 3,044
                                                                                                      2,814                                                2500
                                                    12000                                                                                                  2000
                                                                         1,704                                                                             1500
                                                     8000
                                                                                                                                                           1000
                                                     4000                                                                                                  500
                                                            656
                                                        0                                                                                                  0
                                                            FY2009

                                                                        FY2010

                                                                                  FY2011

                                                                                            FY2012

                                                                                                        FY2013

                                                                                                                  FY2014

                                                                                                                            FY2015

                                                                                                                                      FY2016

                                                                                                                                                FY2017

                                                                                                                                                          FY2018

                                                                                                                                                                    FY2019

                                                                                                                                                                              FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                                        FY2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                  FY2022

                                                                                                                                                                                                            FY2023




12     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion Corporate          General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis          Governance         Information             Report           Financials




                Motorcycles (Domestic)
                After peaking at 13.6 million units in FY2019, domestic sale of motorcycles for the industry steadily fell
                year-on-year right to under 9 million units in FY2022 — a drop of 34% over three consecutive years.
                Thankfully, FY2023 finally led to some growth: to 10.2 million units, or a rise of 13.9% over the trough of
                the previous year. Even so, domestic sales remained significantly below the all-time high of 13.6 million
                units in FY2019.

                Given this industry scenario, how did Bajaj Auto perform?
                Table 1 gives the data on domestic sales.

                Table 1: Domestic sale of Motorcycles (in numbers)
                                           Domestic         Domestic              BAL’s            BAL’s                  BAL's
                Year ended              sales for the           sales         domestic          domestic                 market
                31 March              industry (nos.)         growth        sales (nos.)          growth                  share


                2019                      13,599,678              7.8%        2,541,320             28.7%                 18.7%
                2020                      11,214,640           (17.5%)        2,078,136           (18.2%)                 18.5%
                2021                      10,019,836           (10.7%)        1,807,980           (13.0%)                 18.0%
                2022                       8,984,186           (10.3%)        1,632,897            (9.7%)                 18.2%
                2023                      10,230,502             13.9%        1,769,575              8.4%                 17.3%

                Despite the Company’s domestic sales in FY2023 being 8.4% higher than in the previous year, it grew
                slower than the market. Consequently, Bajaj Auto’s market share witnessed a decline to 17.3%.

                The greatest volume of sales occurs at the lower end, comprising 100-110 cc models. Given the strong
                competitive price pressures in this segment and in a milieu of increasing commodity prices and
                shortages of key semiconductors in the first half of FY2023, it made relatively less sense from the point
                of view of profits and shareholder value to push for on these products. Therefore, Bajaj Auto
                consciously focused to grow the sales of its more profitable models in the 125 cc range and above.
                It was a clear choice where per unit EBIDTA became a key variable.

                Below is a segment-wise analysis of the domestic motorcycle market, followed by what it implies for
                the Company.

                100cc segment: This segment accounts for by far the highest unit-wise sale of motorcycles in India.
                Bajaj Auto is represented here by the CT and Platina brands.

                l   In FY2023, this segment grew by 6%, but over a lower base in FY2022.
                l   For reasons mentioned earlier, Bajaj Auto consciously curtailed presence here. Consequently,
                    Bajaj Auto’s sales was an average of 53,746 units per month, with market share of 12.2%.




                                                                CT                                                                        PULSAR 125


                                                                                                PLATINA




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        13
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion Corporate       General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis          Governance      Information             Report       Financials




            125cc segment: This segment recorded a double-digit growth in the domestic motorcycle market.
            Bajaj Auto is represented here by the Pulsar 125.

            l   In FY2023, this segment grew by 20%.
            l   Bajaj Auto’s sales in this segment grew 38%, market share improved by 300 bps to 23.9%.
            l   Having introduced this sleek model in FY2020, it sold an average of 52,439 units per month through
                FY2023. We look forward to such impressive growth of the Pulsar 125 in FY2024 also.




                        PULSAR 125                                                      PULSAR 125




            150cc and above segment: This segment is the fastest growing and represents 22% of the domestic
            motorcycle market. Bajaj Auto is represented here by the Pulsar, Avenger, Dominar, KTM and
            Husqvarna brands.

            l   In FY2023, this segment grew by 27%.
            l   Bajaj Auto’s sales was an average of 41,002 units per month, with market share of 21.4%.




                                                                                                                 PULSAR NS200
                           PULSAR 150




                                                  PULSAR N160




14     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate        General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis          Governance       Information           Report       Financials




                Irrespective of the market segments, Bajaj Auto is firmly entrenched in the domestic motorcycle market
                with the brand — Pulsar. For instance, Pulsar 125 is a much sought after bike. It is also worth noting
                that in FY2023, the Pulsar’s, as a brand, grew by 33% and sold over 1 million units annually in the
                domestic motorcycle market.




  PULSAR N250                                                                           KTM




                                                                     DOMINAR




                                                                                        VITPILEN 250
                  SVARTPILEN 250




                Probiking (KTM)
                The probiking business consists of two brands: KTM and Husqvarna. The KTM brand and its models are
                well recognised across India. At present, the Husqvarna models are being seeded.

                Unfortunately, production and hence sales in Q1 FY2023 were badly affected by the shortage of
                semiconductors. Consequently, the volume of KTM sales for FY2023 grew by 4% over FY2022.
                Thankfully, this crisis abated from the second quarter, and sales picked up. Thus, if we compare
                volumetric sales for nine-month period of FY2023 versus the same nine-month period of FY2022,
                KTM showed a growth of 16%. Chart C plots the sales of KTMs in India over the years.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                             Bajaj Auto Limited    15
Board of                 Management   Chairman’s           Management Discussion Corporate                          General Shareholder                 Directors’
Directors                Team         Letter               and Analysis          Governance                         Information                         Report       Financials




                                                        Chart C : KTM Sales in India (nos)


                                                                             Sales in India

                              70000                                                                       64,058    63,187

                              60000
                                                                                                                                          52,981
                                                                                                50,705                        50,948
                              50000                                                   46,321
              Annual Volume




                              40000                                         34,970
                                                                  30,362
                              30000
                                                        22,627

                              20000
                                               11,050
                              10000   7,399


                                  0
                                      FY2013


                                               FY2014


                                                         FY2015


                                                                   FY2016


                                                                             FY2017


                                                                                       FY2018


                                                                                                 FY2019


                                                                                                           FY2020


                                                                                                                     FY2021


                                                                                                                               FY2022


                                                                                                                                              FY2023
            Urbanite (Chetak EV)
            In FY2021, this legendary brand was re-introduced as a best-in-class electric scooter. Woven together
            in this iconic design are simple lines and smooth surfaces – creating a thing of beauty and delight. It
            demonstrates the future of mobility, and offers a digitised, fully-connected riding experience by virtue
            of being embedded with mobility solutions like data communication, security and user authentication
            that enable customers to have a seamless ownership and riding experience.

            The global semiconductor shortage that affected the industry right up to the first quarter of FY2023
            also affected the Chetak. Thus, despite market demand, Bajaj Auto could not produce the quantities
            needed right up to the end of Q1 FY2023. Thereafter, the supply-side constraints eased, and we
            increased the manufacturing of the Chetak. To give an example, the Company sold 8,187 units in
            FY2022. This has risen to 36,260 in FY2023. Table 2 gives the data on domestic sales by BAL and
            Chetak Technology Ltd. (Wholly owned subsidiary of BAL).


            Table 2: Domestic sale of Chetak EV (in numbers)


            Year ended 31 March                                                                                                     Nos.                 Growth



            2020                                                                                                                        212
            2021                                                                                                                  1,395                    558%
            2022                                                                                                                  8,187                    487%
            2023                                                                                                               36,260                      343%


            The Chetak is currently sold through 105 dealers present across 84 cities.




16     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                              16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management      Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team            Letter       and Analysis          Governance        Information           Report            Financials




                Three-Wheelers (Domestic)
                Three-wheelers has been a growth story. In FY2019, domestic sales for the industry were 690,425
                units. This fell by 10% in FY2020. Thereafter, the Covid-19 lockdown crashed sales in FY2021 by a
                staggering 66% to 208,091 units. Thankfully, FY2022 saw an increase of 12% to 234,047 units. Finally,
                FY2023 has righted things. The three-wheeler markets picked up across India.

                Our performance in this segment is in Table 3.


                Table 3: Domestic sale of Three-Wheelers (in numbers)

                Particulars                                                         FY2023         FY2022             FY2021



                Passenger carriers
                Industry sales                                                      329,784        166,147        127,790
                BAL’s sales                                                         261,386        130,172             81,618
                BAL’s market share                                                    79.3%          78.3%             63.9%
                Goods carriers
                Industry sales                                                       81,309         67,900             80,301
                BAL’s sales                                                          38,623         30,427             27,686
                BAL’s market share                                                    47.5%          44.8%             34.5%
                Total three-wheelers
                Industry sales                                                      411,093        234,047            208,091
                BAL’s sales                                                         300,009        160,599            109,304
                BAL’s market share                                                    73.0%          68.6%             52.5%

                l   For the industry, sales picked up substantially to reach nearer to the pre-Covid levels. In FY2023
                    alone, the volume of sales went up by 76% to 411,093 units. This is especially gratifying because it
                    signals that owners and operators are again back on track — aided by generous financing offers.
                l   Bajaj Auto’s domestic sale of three-wheelers also grew by 87% to 300,009 units in FY2023.
                l   Domestic sale of Bajaj Auto’s passenger vehicles more than doubled over the previous year to
                    261,386 units in FY2023.
                l   In effect, in the domestic market, Bajaj Auto is the undisputed leader in all the segments.



                International Business
                Unlike in the recent past, FY2023 has been a difficult year for exports — thanks to serious geo-political
                uncertainties, as well as economic challenges like hyper-inflation and scarcity in availability of US
                dollars for key importing nations.

                In FY2023
                l   KTM recorded its highest ever volume of export sales.
                l   We sold 1.8 million units versus 2.5 million vehicles in the previous year.
                l   Though Bajaj Auto’s sales have declined, its market share across major geographies is
                    largely intact.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited        17
Board of                        Management            Chairman’s                  Management Discussion Corporate                                        General Shareholder                 Directors’
Directors                       Team                  Letter                      and Analysis          Governance                                       Information                         Report                       Financials




            Table 4 gives the export data.
            Table 4: Export Volume and Value, for Bajaj Auto

            Particulars                                                                                                                    FY2023                        FY2022                   Change



            Units
            Motorcycles                                                                                                                   1,636,956                  2,195,772                     -25.4%
            Commercial Vehicles                                                                                                            184,284                       310,854                   -40.7%
            Total numbers                                                                                                             1,821,240                     2,506,626                     -27.3%
            Exports in K (crore)                                                                                                            14,458                       16,934                   -14.6%
            Exports in USD (million)                                                                                                           1,787                       2,172                  -17.7%


            Despite this, there are some geographical positives:
            l  In Philippines, after the lifting of Covid restrictions, we increased the volume of motorcycle plus
               three-wheeler sales by 62%.
            l  Similarly, we grew sales in Mexico and Peru.

            In FY2023, exports as a percentage of Bajaj Auto’s net sales was 40.9%. Chart D plots our export
            performance over the years, both in value and as a percentage of the Company’s total net sales.



                                                                   Chart D: Bajaj Auto’s Export Performance


                                                                                    Exports                    As a % of Net Sales

                                                                                                                                                                         52.7
                                     18000                                                                                                                                                  55.0
                                                                                                                                                               46.8
                                     16000                                                           46.2                                                                                   49.5
                                                                                                              44.1                                                                 40.9
                                                                                            41.6                                                     42.0
                                                                                                                                 39.3 40.1                                                  44.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    As a % of Net Sales

                                     14000
              Exports (H In Crore)




                                                                         34.2                                                                                                               38.5
                                     12000
                                             31.3                                                                      36.9
                                                       28.2                        34.4                                                                                                     33.0
                                     10000
                                                                28.0                                                                                                                        27.5
                                      8000
                                                                                                                                                                                            22.0
                                      6000
                                                                                                                                                                                            16.5
                                      4000
                                                                                                                                                                                            11.0
                                      2000                                                                                                                                                  5.5

                                        0                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                             FY2009

                                                       FY2010

                                                                FY2011

                                                                         FY2012

                                                                                   FY2013

                                                                                            FY2014

                                                                                                     FY2015

                                                                                                              FY2016

                                                                                                                        FY2017

                                                                                                                                 FY2018

                                                                                                                                            FY2019

                                                                                                                                                      FY2020

                                                                                                                                                                FY2021

                                                                                                                                                                          FY2022

                                                                                                                                                                                   FY2023




18     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate     General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis          Governance    Information           Report       Financials




                R&D
                FY2023 was a challenging year with many regulatory changes for automotive products to be met under
                very tight timelines; and to work on numerous EV programs to strengthen our EV portfolio.

                Products

                                                                             PULSAR N250
                N250 and F250
                Twin Channel ABS
                with Black scheme
                New generation high end
                Pulsar N250 and F250 have
                been upgraded with a Twin
                Channel Anti-Lock Braking
                system (ABS) and steel
                braided rear brake hoses
                enhancing rider confidence
                and safety during braking.
                The new all black colour
                greatly enhances the visual
                interest and overall
                vehicle appeal.




                                                                                PULSAR F250




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                          Bajaj Auto Limited    19
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion Corporate     General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis          Governance    Information            Report       Financials




            PULSAR N160
                                                                             N160
                                                                             N160, the younger sibling of the
                                                                             Naked N250 in next generation
                                                                             Pulsar line up, inherits all the
                                                                             features and drive away chassis
                                                                             from the N250, making it the
                                                                             best-in-class bike in terms of
                                                                             vehicle handling and rider comfort.
                                                                             The N160 was the first to bring the
                                                                             additional safety of the Dual
                                                                             Channel ABS to this segment. Its
                                                                             modern two-valve engine provides
                                                                             very good torque that gives
                                                                             excellent roll-on performance.




            NS200 and NS160 upgrade
            NS200 and NS160, our muscular streetfighter twins,
            have been upgraded with upside down fork suspension,                 PULSAR NS200
            twin channel ABS and an updated instrument console
            with a gear position indicator and fuel economy display.
            The upside down fork suspension enhance the bikes’
            front-end rigidity — making it easier to drop into the
            corners and improves cornering stability. The twin
            channel ABS and steel braided rear brake hoses helped
            enhancing rider confidence and safety during braking.




                                                                            PULSAR NS160




20     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                               16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis          Governance        Information           Report       Financials




                P150 Single Disc and P150 Twin Disc
                The all new P150 Single and Twin Disc are designed to ooze
                aggression. The models use a brand new 150cc air cooled                        PULSAR P150 SINGLE DISC
                power train, which delivers best-in-class performance and
                gear shift. Both bikes have brilliant class D LED projector head
                lamps that are bi-functional.


                              PULSAR P150 TWIN DISC




                Low Speed EV
                Bajaj R&D has developed                                                                        LOW SPEED EV
                a low-speed two-wheeler for
                Yulu — where the Company has
                a 19% stake — to address its
                needs for the shared mobility
                business. Yulu has launched two
                of these new e-bike variants in
                India, namely Miracle GR
                a personal use vehicle, and Dex
                GR a last-mile delivery vehicle.

                Both have a claimed 25 kph top
                speed, hub-mounted motor and
                both these vehicles use
                swappable batteries to allow
                quick turn-around, an LED
                headlight and tail-lamp.
                The Dex GR gets a rear rack to
                support the load carried by
                delivery agents.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited    21
Board of        Management      Chairman’s     Management Discussion Corporate           General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter         and Analysis          Governance          Information            Report       Financials




            Realigning resources to meet new regulatory requirements
            The Government of India has notified the following requirements to address fire safety concerns of
            electric vehicles as mandatory requirements for CMVR certification and for FAME II, PLI incentives:

            l   AIS 156: This standard addresses the functional safety requirements for electric vehicles and
                traction batteries. Within it, Amendment 3 focuses on additional safety requirements for REESS /
                Traction Battery Packs, charger and battery cell requirements, as well as thermal propagation tests.
            l   MHI guidelines: Ministry of Heavy Industry (MHI) also published an office memorandum dated
                2 November 2022 mandating various cell / battery pack / BMS level tests, as pre-conditions for
                claiming FAME II / PLI scheme incentives.

            Although, AIS 156 was issued earlier covering up to Amendment 1, the subsequent Amendment 3 plus
            the new MHI guidelines appeared suddenly in November 2022 — thus giving only four months for EV
            manufacturers to comply with these before 31 March 2023.

            The BS6 OBD 2 norms were a big engineering change. The notification of the OBD norms splitting it into
            OBD 2A and 2B came in only in November 2022. The powertrain and vehicle configurations had to be
            adjusted to meet the new norms rapidly.

            Alternate source needed for de-risking meant that R&D had to calibrate and homologate many more
            variants to meet these new norms. Over 47 variants had to be homologated. This was done in an
            organised manner. We are proud to state that the entire range of two and three-wheelers has been
            successfully homologated in time.


            Operations
            TPM
            Bajaj Auto’s ‘back end’ consists of its Manufacturing, Engineering, Development and Materials functions.
            The principles and philosophy of TPM guide these functions in achieving excellence both individually
            and collectively to achieve the highest productivity, world-class quality, and lowest cost. ‘The TPM way’
            has been successfully extended to include Bajaj Auto’s vendors, dealers and distributors


            Bajaj Auto’s TPM at Operations
            Bajaj Auto is ‘first in the industry’ in having all its manufacturing plants certified for the ‘Special Award
            for TPM Achievement’ by Japan Institute for Plant Maintenance (JIPM). In FY2020, the BAL Chakan plant
            was also conferred the ‘Advance Special Award for TPM Achievement’ which is a step behind the ‘World
            Class TPM’ award.

            Bajaj Auto’s back-end has defined various ‘focused improvement themes’ which get constantly
            improved through TPM tools and techniques. In the last few years, we have established a production
            system that can flexibly respond to faster new product manufacturing and small-volume production of
            multiple items.

            Further, to sustain all improvements and excel, we work on the ‘Bajaj Production System (BPS)’ which
            aims at ‘Better Flow with Better Quality’. Through this, we are in the process of aligning our efforts at
            the back-end to a ‘No Stock Production’ system encompassing the entire supply chain.

            BAL engineering has developed capabilities for Digitisation and Industry 4.0 through its various
            verticals including automation and robotics. We strive to improve operations parameters through
            accelerating digital transformation in both production and process management.




22     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis          Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited    23
Board of        Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter          and Analysis          Governance        Information            Report       Financials




            Vendor TPM Activities
            BAL seeks the co-existence and co-prosperity of our business partners based on mutual trust.
            We facilitate fair trade, environmentally preferable purchasing, human resources development, safety
            and health activities as well as more reinforced and efficient procuring that gives consideration to
            various risks.

            The TPM concept is pervasive at Tier I vendors’ end with the help of BAVA (Bajaj Auto Vendors
            Association). Moreover, Bajaj Auto’s TPM practicing Tier I vendors have extended the TPM practices
            down the supply chain to their vendors.

            Under the Safety, Health and Environment pillar of Bajaj Auto’s TPM and in alignment with the ‘Green
            Purchase Policy’, various activities were initiated — with the majority of our vendors having been
            certified for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Our 39 vendor groups have started with renewable energy
            and have implemented rooftop solar equivalent to 35 MW power.

            We have also taken up a drive to maximise supplies to all our plants from vendors within the plant
            cluster. The majority of our supplies at respective BAL manufacturing locations are being done by
            vendors; located in each cluster. This has significantly shortened the length of our supply chain and
            reduced our carbon footprint.


            TPM in Dealer Service and Overseas Distributor Plants
            TPM methodologies are being continuously spread across our business partners in India and the other
            global locations. The tool is kaizen, which is well spread across our dealers and distributors.

            We started the implementation of TPM at our international distributor plants. As of FY2023, 19 such
            distributor plants have been practicing TPM for over a year. Consequently, these are now experiencing
            improvements in manpower productivity, production rate, first-time-right quality and reduction in cost
            parameters. Four of our distributor plants were evaluated for the qualification criterion of the ‘BAL TPM
            Award’. All of them have experienced more than 30% growth in their KPI parameters. In FY2024, three
            more countries are expected to join the league of BAL TPM award.

            As on 31 March 2023, we had 1,012 dealerships practicing TPM. As on 31 March 2023, 418 dealerships
            were awarded the ‘BAL TPM Award’.


            Capacity and Employee Strength
            Table 5: Plant-wise capacities (in units per annum) - BAL + CTL

            Plant                              As on 31 March 2023 Product Range



            Waluj                Motorcycles             2,700,000 Boxer, CT, Platina, Discover, Pulsar
                                 Commercial Vehicles       930,000 Passenger Carriers, Goods Carriers, Quadricycle
            Chakan               Motorcycles             1,200,000 Pulsar, Avenger, Dominar, KTM, Husqvarna
            Chakan/Akurdi        Scooters                  120,000 Chetak
            Pantnagar            Motorcycles             1,800,000 CT, Platina and Pulsar
                                                         6,750,000

            As on 31 March 2023, total employee strength stood at 9,816. This includes Chetak Technology Ltd.
            (CTL) employee strength of 361.


            Women Employment
            Our women employee strength has grown over four times: from 148 in FY2014 to 694 in FY2023.
            Almost 62% of the women are working in the manufacturing plants and in engineering.




24     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis          Governance        Information           Report           Financials




                Human Resource
                Over the last year, we have refined and focused on 4 key areas – capability building, employee
                engagement, learning and development, and employee wellbeing.

                As part of our Capability Building, we have been able to recruit, invest, develop and promote internal
                talent and have attracted external talent for key leadership roles across functions and BUs. Thus, with
                focused efforts, we have been able to build a strong leadership and management cadre.

                We launched Lean In which is a global community dedicated to helping foster leadership, advancement,
                and inclusion of women in the workplace, strategised and launched campus challenges-TORQ across
                28 premier engineering colleges including top 8 IITs and IISc to attract the sharpest minds of the
                country and developed teams, from scratch, in record time with niche skills like EMI/EMC design,
                reliability engineering, IoT and OS reprogramming and mobile application development.

                Through these and other initiatives, Chetak Technology Ltd. (our 100% subsidiary) has 54% female
                strength for L4 and below level, and 22% for L3+ level, which is the highest across all business units.

                To strengthen Employee Engagement, we launched for the first time, a survey named Pulse across the
                organisation to gauge the overall engagement levels, identify the areas of improvement, plan focused
                interventions, and ascertain the impact of people interventions. The initiative received an outstanding
                response rate of 92%.

                We also conducted various events throughout the year such as Mental Health Awareness Week and
                Women’s Week Celebration, Prodigy for celebrating the achievements of employee’s children and Disha
                as a career guidance service to boost the career of employees’ children in the right direction.

                We recognise the importance of investing in the Learning and Development of our employees to keep
                up with the changing industry trends and technological advancements. By investing in our employees,
                we were able to stay ahead of the curve and continue to deliver innovative and high-quality electric
                vehicles to our customers.

                We partnered with industry best trainers to provide training and certification in EV related fields.
                We collaborated with IIT Madras to upskill employees in EEE-related skills including software and
                launched a 6-month certification course on E-mobility and Electric Vehicle Engineering.

                Charged and Supercharged were launched for R&D-GTE’s to equip them with foundational skills
                necessary to build an EV and also launched up!SURGE and up!SWING which focused on the learning
                and development of women employees.

                As a part of Employee Wellbeing initiatives and aligning with our principles of ‘incorporating best
                market practices’ and ‘continuous improvement’, we have launched Paternity Leave Policy for
                our employees.

                These initiatives have led us to winning multiple awards and recognitions such as:

                ‘Significant Achievement in HR Excellence’ as part of the CII National HR Excellence
                Award Confluence 2021-22

                ET HR World Future Skills Awards 2022 under the category of ‘Best Approach to Implementing a
                Learning Experience Platform (LXP)’ and ‘L&D Future Leaders’.

                Gold Award as part of the Brandon Hall Group Technology Excellence Awards 2022, under the category
                ‘Best Advance in Learning Management Technology (LMT)’

                And our managers won The Great Manager Awards 2022 and received The HR40under40’s Future HR
                Leader Award.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited       25
Board of        Management      Chairman’s     Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter         and Analysis          Governance        Information            Report         Financials




            Financials
            Table 6 gives the summarised standalone profit and loss statement of Bajaj Auto.

            Table 6: Standalone Profit and Loss Statement
                                                                                                              (H In Crore)

            Particulars                                                              FY2023       FY2022      Growth%



            Operations
            Sales                                                                     35,359       32,136         10.0%
            Other operating income                                                     1,069        1,009
            Total operating income                                                    36,428       33,145          9.9%


            Cost of materials consumed, net of expenditures capitalised               26,027       24,317
                                                                                       71.4%        73.4%
            Stores and tools                                                             154          132
                                                                                        0.4%         0.4%
            Employee cost                                                              1,443        1,356
                                                                                        4.0%         4.1%
            Factory, administrative and other expenses                                 1,086          948
                                                                                        3.0%         2.8%
            Sales and after sales expenses                                             1,167        1,131
                                                                                        3.2%         3.4%
            Total expenditure                                                         29,877       27,884
            Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)      6,551        5,261        24.5%
            EBIDTA %                                                                  18.0%        15.9%
            Interest                                                                      39            9
            Depreciation and amortisation                                                283          269
            Operating profit                                                           6,229        4,983        25.0%
                                                                                       17.1%        15.0%
            Non-operating income                                                       1,181        1,209
            Less : Non-operating expense                                                   1            2
            Non-operating income, net                                                  1,180        1,207
            Profit before tax and exceptional item                                     7,409        6,190        19.7%
            Exceptional item (Income) / Expense                                             -        (315)
            Profit before tax                                                          7,409        6,505        13.9%
            Tax expense                                                                1,781        1,486
            Profit after tax                                                           5,628        5,019        12.1%
            Surplus cash and cash equivalents as on 31 March                          17,445       19,090         -8.6%
            Return on Operating Capital Employed (ROCE)                                309%         214%

            Our surplus funds are invested in (i) fixed income securities rated A1+ and equivalent for short term
            investments, (ii) AA+ and above rated securities for long term investments, and (iii) fixed deposits with
            banks and finance companies.




26     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis          Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited    27
Board of        Management      Chairman’s      Management Discussion Corporate        General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter          and Analysis          Governance       Information            Report       Financials




            As required for listed companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Table 7 gives the
            key ratios.

            Table 7: Bajaj Auto’s Key Financial Ratios, Standalone

            Particulars                      FY2023   FY2022 Remarks



            Debtors Turnover Ratio            21.48     15.18 Revenue from contract with customers recording a
                                                              growth and average receivables recording a decline
            Inventory Turnover Ratio          19.83     17.86
            Current Ratio                      1.71      2.13
            Operating Profit Margin           17.1%    15.0%
            Net Profit Margin                 15.0%    14.6%
            Return on Net Worth               21.6%    19.4%



            Subsidiaries
            Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV)
            Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV) is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of
            Bajaj Auto Ltd. Over the years 2007 to 2013, through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto has invested a total of
            €198.1 million (H 1,219 crore) and holds 49.9% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG (PBAG).
            50.1% in PBAG is held by the Pierer Group.

            Pierer Bajaj AG (formerly PTW Holding AG) holds 73.3% stake in Pierer Mobility AG (PMAG).
            Pierer Mobility AG is Europe’s leading ‘Powered Two-wheeler’ manufacturer with focus on highly
            innovative sports motorcycles and electric mobility-E bicycles, E motorcycles, etc. With its KTM,
            Husqvarna and GASGAS motorcycle brands, it is a leading premium motorcycle manufacturer
            in Europe.

            Bajaj Auto is a partner in all mobility businesses that the Pierer Group engages in.

            In the year 2022, PBAG recorded a strong performance with revenues in excess of €2.4 billion
            (growth of 19.5% over 2021) and a profit of €125 million.


            Chetak Technology Ltd. (CTL)
            In the electric vehicle (EV) market, two-wheelers are expected to have an early advantage, especially
            given the various incentive schemes from the Government of India and various state governments. In
            FY2023, the market size was estimated at over 300,000 units annually.

            Given a high stake, Bajaj Auto felt the need to participate in this space through a 100% subsidiary called
            Chetak Technology Ltd. (CTL), with a clear focus to develop new technologies and products, to have
            dedicated manufacturing, sales, after-sales and to offer customer centric experiences.

            The subsidiary formed on 4 October 2021 with initial paid-up equity share capital of H 5 crore, stands
            adequately funded with paid-up equity share capital of H 470 crore as on 31 March 2023. That apart,
            a new state of the art manufacturing facility at Akurdi is being set up with planned investments in
            excess of H 200 crore.

            For FY2023, CTL sold 4,873 units, generating a total operating income of H 81 crore and recorded a net
            loss of H 77 crore. As on 31 March 2023, CTL’s employee strength stood at 361.




28     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis          Governance        Information           Report          Financials




                Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
                Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand with an issued and subscribed share
                capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H 10 crore). An Engineering Design Centre (EDC) is set up under
                this subsidiary.

                Bajaj Auto (Thailand) has all necessary approvals from local authorities. The EDC is operational and
                international designers are working from this new facility in Bangkok.


                Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.
                Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U. is a wholly owned subsidiary in Barcelona, Spain – intent being to setup an
                Engineering Design Centre – with an issued and subscribed share capital of €600K (H 5 crore).

                The EDC has just started operations with the facility being set-up and is expected to be fully operational
                in the coming year.


                Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd. (BACFL)
                With over two-thirds of two-wheelers and over three-fourths of three-wheelers retailed in India being
                financed, this activity is the key to the automobile business. Penetration, geographic coverage and
                expanding financing options for the retail customers of Bajaj Auto Ltd. and Chetak Technology Ltd.
                are the keys to success in future.

                A wholly-owned captive financing company has been formed. This new subsidiary with a paid-up equity
                share capital of H 30 crore has applied to the RBI for an NBFC license and is drawing up plans to set up
                a new organisation, infrastructure and processes. Once operational, Bajaj Auto will be positioned to
                offer an increased variety of financing options to its business partners and retail customers through
                this new NBFC.


                Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda
                Brazil is an important market for motorcycles in Latin America. To address this motorcycle market in
                Brazil, Bajaj Auto has set up a wholly owned subsidiary on 31 March 2022 with a paid up equity share
                capital of BRL 30 million (H 48 crore).

                The subsidiary has just started operations after obtaining all necessary approvals and has currently
                introduced the Dominar 160, 200 and 400 range of motorcycles in this highly competitive market. Full
                scale operations are likely to commence in the coming year.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited      29
Board of        Management      Chairman’s    Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter        and Analysis          Governance        Information            Report         Financials




            Consolidation of accounts and
            segment reporting
            Table 8: Segment Revenue and Segment Results
                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

            Segment Revenue                                                                   FY2023           FY2022



            Automotive                                                                         36,665           33,272
            Investment and others                                                                 978             1,157
                                                                                              37,643           34,429


            Segment Results
            Profit/(Loss) from each segment before tax
            Automotive                                                                          6,905             6,505
            Investment and others                                                                 976             1,155
                                                                                                7,881            7,660
            Less: Interest                                                                         39                  8
            Profit before tax                                                                   7,842            7,652
            Profit after tax                                                                    6,060            6,166



            Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
            Bajaj Auto is focused to build competence around selected areas and create large scale impact.
            During FY2023, it focused on


            Skilling Initiatives
            As a part of Skilling Initiatives, two large scale programs have been launched.

            A. Bajaj Engineering Skills Training (BEST)
            The objective is to make the youth ready for industry 4.0 by skilling them in current and evolving
            technologies. A focused curriculum is developed in 4 modules and setting up Industry relevant
            equipment across Universities and Engineering colleges for practical applications. The modules and
            labs for these topics have been designed leveraging experts from Bajaj Auto Engineering team and in
            consultation with external stakeholders like CII, ACMA, ASDC and Academia.

            The primary target beneficiaries for the program are Diploma and Graduate engineers from tier 2 and
            tier 3 colleges/institutes/locations. The duration of such courses is designed to be between 4-6 months
            with a combination of 70% practical and 30% theory. The center will also cater to various other short
            term skill trainings, covering both fresh skilling and upskilling.

            B. Bajaj Manufacturing Systems (BMS) Certification program
            Bajaj Auto has been implementing manufacturing system and processes as per the TPM (Total
            Productivity Management) philosophy. Basis the research and an understanding of ITI ecosystem, it was
            realised that students in these institutions do not get exposure to latest manufacturing systems and
            processes implemented in the industry.

            To better equip the students, Bajaj Auto has developed an innovative and interactive digitised
            self-learning content with real life and industry examples. These modules are going to be hosted via
            online Learning Management System (LMS) and will provide free access to students. The first phase of
            pilot will be conducted in the year 2023 across ITI’s in Maharashtra. Basis the learnings and
            experiences, this will be expanded across the entire state of Maharashtra and then PAN India.




30     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis          Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited    31
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion Corporate         General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis          Governance        Information            Report       Financials




            Education programs in and around our local area
            A. Science Technology Engineering Mathematics (STEM) Education in schools: Bajaj Auto has
            implemented STEM education in schools and tuition centers to support school children with academic
            classes which will enhance their interest in STEM subjects. It also has set up science labs in schools
            and trained teachers to adopt applied learning.

            B. Vocational Education in schools: Bajaj Auto is supporting ‘Lend A Hand India’ for a three-year
            intervention aimed at improving access and quality in delivery of education in secondary/higher
            secondary schools in the state of Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. The project has two primary objectives.
            To launch skill vocational education program in 20 schools (10 schools each at Sikar in Rajasthan and
            Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand) and
            To provide technical and project management support to the State governments of Rajasthan and
            Uttarakhand in scaling the vocational education in 1,105 schools (905 in Rajasthan and 200 in
            Uttarakhand). Overall, the program seeks to reach out to 121,600 students through a blend of direct and
            systemic capacity building interventions.

            C. Scholarships for Higher Education: Bajaj Auto has initiated ‘Rupa Rahul Bajaj Scholarship Program’
            to support students from underprivileged background to take higher education in reputed Universities
            and colleges. A detailed process is laid down to select students who will be eligible for scholarship.
            To start with, from FY2024, 10 students have been extended the financial support for four years.
            This program will be scaled up to create a pipeline for BEST initiative.

            D. Bharatiya Yuva Shakti Trust (BYST-Youth Entrepreneurship Development Program)
            The program, run by BYST, includes supporting underprivileged young entrepreneurs by supplementing
            financing based on the assessment done by the mentors assigned to them who are drawn from the
            similar industry and who gives voluntary personalised advice and support. The young entrepreneurs
            are nurtured till they reach a level where not only are self-sufficient, but they in turn make a valuable
            contribution to society through creation of wealth and employment. Bajaj Auto has commitment to
            mentor 1,000 youths through BYST and help them build their enterprise.


            Programs under Environment sustainability
            A. Bajaj Water Conservation Project (BWCP): The Bajaj Water Conservation Project was launched in
            110 villages of Gangapur and Aurangabad Talukas of Aurangabad district, where a total of H 123 crore
            was funded by Bajaj Auto and the community contributed H 46 crore for the project. The key activities
            undertaken during second phase were water resource development, capacity building, livelihood
            enhancement through alternate livelihoods, soil conservation and plantation, water use efficiency and
            productivity enhancement.

            B. Animal Welfare: Bajaj Auto is supporting Canine and Care and Control under Animal Welfare.
            The organisation works under 5 day program for Animal Birth Control (ABC) starting from catching
            of canine, spaying, post operative care for 2 days and to release of same canine in same area.
            In FY2023, a support was provided for ABC (Animal Birth Control) of Canine Population in Pune
            Municipal Corporation area. Along with ABC, these canines get vaccinated for Rabies.


            Cautionary Statement
            Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s objectives,
            projections, estimates and expectations may be ‘forward looking’ within the meaning of applicable laws
            and regulations. Actual results may differ from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could
            make a difference to the Company’s operations include global economy, political stability, stock
            performance on stock markets, changes in government regulations, tax regimes, economic
            developments and other incidental factors. Except as required by law, the Company does not undertake
            to update any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. Investors are
            advised to exercise due care and caution while interpreting these statements.




32     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis             Governance     Information           Report         Financials




                      CORPORATE
                      GOVERNANCE
                Corporate governance is about promoting fairness, transparency, accountability, commitment to values,
                ethical business conduct and considering the interest of all stakeholders while conducting business.

                In accordance with the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                Regulations, 2015 and amendments thereto (‘the Listing Regulations, 2015’), given below are the
                corporate governance policies and practices of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (‘the Company’, ‘Bajaj Auto’ or ‘BAL’)
                for the year 2022-23 (or ‘FY2023’).

                This report states compliance as per requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the
                Listing Regulations, 2015 as applicable to the Company. As will be seen, Bajaj Auto’s corporate
                governance practices and disclosures have gone well beyond complying with the statutory and
                regulatory requirements stipulated in the applicable laws, including the Listing Regulations, 2015.



                Philosophy
                For us, corporate governance is a reflection of principles entrenched in our values and policies and also
                embedded in our day-to-day business practices, leading to value-driven growth. The commitment of the
                Bajaj group to the highest standards of good governance practices predates SEBI and the provisions of
                the Listing Regulations, 2015. Ethical dealings, transparency, fairness, disclosure and accountability are
                fundamental canons of the Bajaj group. Bajaj Auto Ltd. maintains the same tradition and commitment.

                Key elements of Bajaj Auto’s corporate governance
                l   Number of Board meetings exceed the statutory requirement, including meetings dedicated
                    to discussing operating plans, strategies, new products development, brands in domestic and
                    international businesses and managing the internal and external risks.
                l   The Company’s Board comprises directors from diverse backgrounds and substantial experience,
                    who are able to provide appropriate guidance to the executive management as required.
                l   The Board comprises independent directors with outstanding track record and reputation.
                l   All Board members are invited and encouraged to be present at committee meetings, even if they
                    are not members.
                l   There are pre-audit committee meetings of the chairman of the audit committee with the
                    statutory auditors, the internal auditor and such members of executive management who are
                    process owners.
                l   There are separate meetings of independent directors without presence of non-independent
                    directors or executive management.
                l   There is a confidential Board evaluation process where each Board member evaluates the
                    performance of every other director, committees of the Board, the Chairman of the Board and the
                    Board itself.
                l   Presentations by key senior management team members of the Company and its subsidiaries are
                    regularly made to familiarise directors with key elements of each business.
                l   Complete and detailed information are provided in advance to Board members.
                l   Key governance policies are placed on the Company’s website.
                l   A half-yearly letter from the management is sent to all shareholders of the Company.
                l   The Company monitors its governance through a dedicated governance team.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited     33
Board of        Management      Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter         and Analysis             Governance      Information            Report       Financials




            l   Adoption of key governance policies and codes by the Board in line with best practices, which are
                made available to stakeholders for downloading/viewing from the Company’s website.
                These include:
                - Whistle blower policy/vigil mechanism;
                - Policy on materiality of and dealing with related party transactions;
                - Code of conduct;
                - Dividend distribution policy;
                - Policy on prevention of sexual harassment at workplace;
                - Fair practices code;
                - Policy on human rights;
                - Equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination policy.
            l   The weblinks of key policies are given as an annexure to this report.

            Further details of these principles are highlighted in the appropriate sections in this Report.

            Board of Directors
            The Company’s policy is to have an appropriate blend of executive, independent and non-independent
            directors to maintain independence of the Board and to separate the Board functions of governance
            from that of management.


            Composition
            As per regulation 17(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, where the Chairman is non-executive
            director or a promoter, at least half of the Board of a Company should consist of independent directors.
            As Table 1 shows, this provision is met at BAL.

            As on 31 March 2023, the Board consisted of twelve directors, of whom three were executive (including
            the managing director), six were non-executive as well as independent (including one woman
            independent director) and three were non-executive and non-independent. The Board has no
            institutional nominee director.

            Further particulars about the directors are mentioned in the Board’s Report.


            Number of meetings of the Board
            During FY2023, the Board met seven times: 27 April 2022, 14 June 2022, 27 June 2022, 26 July 2022,
            14 October 2022, 25 January 2023 and 14 March 2023. The gap between any two meetings has been
            less than 120 days.

            As per the relaxation given by MCA due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all the Board and committees
            meetings of the Company during the year under review were held in hybrid mode (Physical meeting
            plus through video conferencing).




34     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management       Chairman’s          Management Discussion            Corporate          General Shareholder        Directors’
Directors     Team             Letter              and Analysis                     Governance         Information                Report             Financials




                Attendance record of directors
                Table 1: Composition of the Board and attendance record of directors for FY2023
                                                                                                                          No. of
                                                                                                           No. of         Board          Whether
                                                                        Relationship with               shares held      Meetings        attended
                Name of director Category                               other directors                 by director      attended        last AGM



                Niraj Bajaj             Chairman,                       Brother of Madhur Bajaj              719,022*        7/7               Yes
                                        non-executive,
                                        non-independent
                Madhur Bajaj            Vice Chairman,                  Brother of Niraj Bajaj            1,002,552*         7/7               Yes
                                        non-executive,
                                        non-independent
                Rajiv Bajaj             Managing Director and           Brother of Sanjiv Bajaj              756,200*        7/7               Yes
                                        CEO, executive
                Sanjiv Bajaj            Non-executive,                  Brother of Rajiv Bajaj           1,818,020**         7/7               Yes
                                        non-independent
                D J Balaji Rao          Non-executive,                                –                         –            7/7               Yes
                                        independent
                Pradeep                 Executive Director                            –                        75            7/7               Yes
                Shrivastava
                Dr. Naushad             Non-executive,                                –                       3,500          6/7               Yes
                Forbes                  independent
                Anami N. Roy            Non-executive,                                –                         _            6/7               Yes
                                        independent
                Rakesh Sharma           Executive Director                            –                       6,246          7/7               Yes
                Ms. Lila                Non-executive,                                –                         –            7/7               Yes
                Poonawalla              independent
                Pradip Shah             Non-executive,                                –                       4,000          7/7               Yes
                                        independent
                Abhinav Bindra          Non-executive,                                –                         –            7/7               Yes
                                        independent
                Notes:
                1.   Dr. Gita Piramal resigned as an independent director of the Company w.e.f. closing hours of 30 April 2022.
                2.   Shekhar Bajaj resigned as non-executive, non-independent director of the Company w.e.f. closing hours of 30 June 2022.
                3.   *The equity shares also includes shares held in the capacity of trustee of private family trusts.
                4.   **Sanjiv Bajaj holds 1,048,796 shares as executor for the Estate of Late Rahul Bajaj.



                Board diversity
                In compliance with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, 2015, the Board through nomination and
                remuneration committee has devised a policy on Board diversity. The Board comprises adequate
                number of members with diverse experience and skills, such that it best serves the governance and
                strategic needs of the Company. The directors are persons of eminence in areas such as business,
                industry, finance, law, administration, economics etc. and bring with them experience and skills which
                add value to the performance of the Board. The directors are selected purely on the basis of merit with
                no discrimination on race, colour, religion, gender or nationality. The Board composition as at present
                meets with the above objective.

                A brief profile of the directors is available on the website of the Company at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/about-us/bajaj-team




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited         35
Board of        Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter          and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Opinion of the Board
            The Board confirms that, in its opinion, the independent directors on the Board fulfil the conditions
            specified in the Listing Regulations, 2015 and the Act and are independent of the management.


            Non-executive directors’ compensation
            The shareholders of the Company through a special resolution passed at the annual general meeting of the
            Company held on 22 July 2021 have, by way of an enabling provision, approved payment of commission up
            to a sum not exceeding one percent of the net profits of the Company, calculated in accordance with the
            provisions of section 197 and 198 of the Act, to the non-executive directors, in the manner as may be
            decided by the Board of directors from time to time during the five year term up to 31 March 2026.

            Consistent with this approval from the shareholders, the Company pays sitting fee of H 100,000 per
            meeting to its non-executive directors for attending meetings of the Board and meetings of committees of
            the Board (except Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee) as member. The Company also pays
            commission to the non-executive directors within the ceiling of one percent of the net profits of the
            Company as computed under the applicable provisions of the Act. The said commission is decided by the
            Board of directors on the recommendation of the nomination and remuneration committee and distributed
            amongst the non-executive directors. With effect from 1 April 2023, the commission payable has been
            enhanced from H 250,000 to H 315,000 per meeting of the Board and/or committees.

            Compensation to the non-executive (including independent) directors reflects the time, effort, attendance
            and participation of such directors in Board and committee meetings. Payment to them is linked to their
            attendance.

            The Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019 for the benefit of the
            permanent employees and/or directors of the Company and/or its holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary
            company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any employee who is a promoter or belonging to
            the promoter group.


            Information supplied to the Board
            In advance of each meeting, the Board is presented with relevant information on various matters
            related to the working of the Company, especially those which require deliberation at the highest level.
            Presentations are also made to the Board by different functional heads on important matters from time
            to time. Directors have separate and independent access to the officers of the Company. In addition to
            such items as required to be placed before the Board for its noting and/or approval, information is
            provided on various other significant items as well.

            In terms of quality and importance, the information supplied by the management to the Board of the
            Company exceeds the list mandated under regulation 17(7) read with Part A of Schedule II to the Listing
            Regulations, 2015.

            The independent directors of the Company at their meeting held on 14 March 2023 have expressed
            satisfaction on the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s
            management and the Board and have confirmed that these significantly aid the Board to effectively and
            reasonably perform its duties.

            Pursuant to various regulatory requirements, and in compliance with applicable laws, and keeping in
            view the business requirements, the Board is, inter alia, apprised on the following:

            l   Business plans, forecast and strategic initiatives.
            l   Capital expenditure and updates.
            l   Internal financial controls.
            l   Succession planning and organisation structure.
            l   Details of incidence of frauds and corrective action taken thereon.
            l   Performance of subsidiaries.
            l   Status of compliances with Companies Act, 2013, SEBI regulations and shareholder related matters.
            l   Various policies framed by Company from time to time.


36     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management       Chairman’s          Management Discussion            Corporate           General Shareholder          Directors’
Directors     Team             Letter              and Analysis                     Governance          Information                  Report              Financials




                l   Risk management system, risk management policy and strategy followed.
                l   Compliance with corporate governance standards.
                l   Minutes of meetings of risk management and other Board Committees.
                l   Compliance with fair practices code.
                l   Changes in regulatory landscape.

                To leverage technology and move towards paperless systems, the Company has, since several years,
                adopted a web-based application for transmitting Board/committee meetings papers. Directors of the
                Company receive Board papers in electronic form through this application. This application meets high
                standards of security and integrity required for storage and transmission of Board/committee papers
                in electronic form.


                Directors and officers liability insurance (D&O policy)
                The Company has in place a D&O policy which is renewed every year. It covers directors (including
                independent directors) and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Board is of the opinion that
                the quantum and risks presently covered are adequate.


                Orderly succession to Board and senior management
                One of the key functions of the Board of directors is selecting, compensating, monitoring, and when
                necessary, replacing the members of the Board of Directors and the senior managerial personnel
                including the KMPs and overseeing their succession planning.

                Pursuant to regulation 17(4) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, the framework of succession planning for the
                Board and senior management was placed before the Board for its review. During the year under review,
                the Board of the Company has satisfied itself that the plans are in place for orderly succession of such
                appointments.


                Directorships and memberships of Board committees
                Table 2: Number of directorships/committee positions of directors as on
                31 March 2023 (including the Company)
                                                                                                            Committee positions in listed and
                                                                 Directorships                              unlisted public limited companies
                                               In equity          In unlisted           In private              As member
                Name of the                      listed          public limited           limited              (including as                  As
                director                      companies           companies            companies                 chairman)                 chairman


                Niraj Bajaj                         3                    4                    6                        1                          -
                Madhur Bajaj                        4                     -                   3                         -                         -
                Rajiv Bajaj                         5                    2                    4                         -                         -
                Sanjiv Bajaj                        5                    5                    8                        8                          -
                D J Balaji Rao                      4                     -                   -                        4                          2
                Pradeep Shrivastava                 1                     -                   -                         -                         -
                Dr. Naushad Forbes                  5                    1                    8                        7                          2
                Anami N. Roy                        6                    3                    1                        8                          4
                Rakesh Sharma                       1                    2                    -                         -                         -
                Ms. Lila Poonawalla                 2                    4                    1                        6                          3
                Pradip Shah                         7                    1                    7                        8                          3
                Abhinav Bindra                      1                    1                    5                         -                         -

                Notes: None of the directors hold office as a director, including as an alternate director, in more than twenty companies at the same time.
                None of them has directorships in more than ten public companies. For reckoning the limit of public companies, directorships of private
                companies that are either holding or subsidiary company of a public company are included; for reckoning the limit of private and public
                companies, directorships in dormant companies and companies under section 8 of the Act are excluded.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited           37
Board of         Management          Chairman’s          Management Discussion            Corporate          General Shareholder          Directors’
Directors        Team                Letter              and Analysis                     Governance         Information                  Report        Financials




            As per the declarations received, none of the directors serves as an independent director in more than seven equity listed companies or
            in more than three equity listed companies in case he or she is a whole-time director / managing director in any listed company. Further,
            the managing director of Bajaj Auto does not serve as an independent director in any equity listed company.

            For the purpose of considering the limit of the committees in which a director can serve, all public limited companies, whether listed or
            not, have been included and all other companies including private limited companies, foreign companies and companies under section 8
            of the Act have been excluded.

            None of the directors was a member in more than ten committees, nor a chairperson in more than five committees across all companies
            in which he/she was a director. Only audit committees and stakeholders’ relationship committees are considered for the purpose of
            reckoning committee positions.

            Notwithstanding the number of directorships, as has been highlighted herein, the outstanding attendance record and participation of the
            directors in Board and committee meetings indicate their commitment and ability to devote adequate time to their responsibilities as the
            Company’s fiduciaries.



            Directorships held by directors in equity listed companies

            Table 3: Name of listed entities (including debt listed companies) where directors
            of the Company held directorships as on 31 March 2023 (including the Company)
            Name of director               Name of listed entities                                   Category



            Niraj Bajaj                    a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                        Chairman, non-executive

                                                                                                     Chairman and Managing Director,
                                           b) Mukand Ltd.
                                                                                                     executive

                                           c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                       Vice Chairman, non-executive

                                                                                                     Vice-Chairman, non-executive

            Madhur Bajaj                   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                        Vice Chairman, non-executive

                                           b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                                     Non-executive

                                           c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                       Non-executive

                                           d) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                                 Non-executive



            Rajiv Bajaj                    a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                        Managing Director and CEO, executive

                                           b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                                     Non-executive

                                           c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                                     Non-executive

                                           d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                       Non-executive

                                           e) Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                                 Non-executive



            Sanjiv Bajaj                   a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                        Non-executive

                                           b) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                                     Chairman, non-executive

                                                                                                     Chairman and Managing Director,
                                           c) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
                                                                                                     executive

                                           d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                       Managing Director and CEO, executive

                                           e) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                              Chairman, non-executive

                                           f)   Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
                                                                                                     Chairman, non-executive
                                                (high value debt listed)

                                                                                                     Non-executive, independent




38     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                               16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management      Chairman’s        Management Discussion     Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team            Letter            and Analysis              Governance   Information           Report       Financials




                Table 3: Name of equity listed entities where directors of the Company held
                directorships as on 31 March 2023 (Contd.) (Contd.)
                Name of director           Name of listed entities                     Category



                D J Balaji Rao             a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                           b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                           c) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                           d) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent



                Pradeep Shrivastava        a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Executive

                                                                                       Executive

                Dr. Naushad Forbes         a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                           b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                           c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent

                                           d) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                           e) Zodiac Clothing Company Ltd.             Non-executive, independent



                Anami N. Roy               a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                           b) Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                           c) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent

                                           d) Bajaj Finance Ltd.                       Non-executive, independent

                                           e) Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd.     Non-executive, independent

                                           f)   Finolex Industries Ltd.                Non-executive, independent

                                           g) Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
                                                                                       Non-executive, independent
                                              (high value debt listed)



                Rakesh Sharma              a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Executive

                                                                                       Non-executive, independent

                Ms. Lila Poonawalla        a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                           b) Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                Non-executive, independent

                                                                                       Non-executive, independent

                Pradip Shah                a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent

                                           b) Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd.               Chairman, non-executive, independent

                                           c) Pfizer Ltd.                              Chairman, non-executive, independent

                                           d) KSB Ltd.                                 Non-executive, independent

                                           e) BASF India Ltd.                          Chairman, non-executive, independent

                                           f)   Sonata Software Ltd.                   Chairman, non-executive, independent

                                           g) Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.         Non-executive, independent

                                                                                       Non-executive, independent

                Abhinav Bindra             a) Bajaj Auto Ltd.                          Non-executive, independent




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited    39
Board of        Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter          and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Certificate from practising Company Secretary
            The Company has received a certificate from Mr. Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company
            Secretary to the effect that none of the directors on the Board of the Company has been debarred or
            disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by the Ministry of
            Corporate Affairs or any other statutory authority. This certificate forms part of this Report.


            Review of legal compliance reports
            The Board periodically reviews compliance reports with respect to the various laws applicable to the
            Company, as prepared and placed before it by the management.


            Code of Conduct
            Regulation 17(5) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, requires listed companies to lay down a code of conduct
            for its directors and senior management, incorporating duties of directors as laid down in the Act.

            The Company has a Board approved Code of Conduct for Board members and senior management of the
            Company. Based on the review, the Code of Conduct was revised in line with applicable regulations and
            approved by the Board at its meeting held on 25 April 2023. The updated Code of Conduct has been placed
            on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

            All directors and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the code for FY2023.
            A declaration to this effect signed by the managing director and CEO is given in this Annual Report.


            Maximum tenure of independent directors
            The maximum tenure of independent directors is in accordance with the Act and regulation 25(2) of the
            Listing Regulations, 2015.


            Formal letter of appointment to independent directors
            The Company issues a formal letter of appointment to independent directors in the manner as provided
            in the Act. As per regulation 46(2) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, the terms and conditions of
            appointment/re-appointment of independent directors are on the Company’s website at
            https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous


            Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees,
            the chairman and the directors
            Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015, the Board has carried out an
            annual performance evaluation of its own performance, and that of its committees, chairman and
            individual directors.

            The manner in which formal annual evaluation of performance was made by the Board is given below:

            l   The evaluation criteria have been duly approved by the nomination and remuneration committee
                and the Board. During the year under review, the criteria and the process followed by the
                Company were reviewed by the nomination and remuneration committee and the Board
                and were found to be in order. This is available on the website of the Company at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes
            l   Based on the said criteria, a questionnaire-cum-rating sheet was uploaded on an online IT tool
                for seeking evaluation rating and feedback of the directors in the most confidential manner with
                regards to the performance of the Board, its committees, the chairman and individual directors.
            l   From the individual ratings received from the directors, a report on summary of the ratings in
                respect of performance evaluation of the Board, its committees, the chairman and directors and a
                consolidated report thereof for FY2023 were arrived at.
            l   The report of performance evaluation so arrived at was then discussed and noted by the Board at
                its meeting held on 14 March 2023.


40     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis          Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited    41
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            l   The nomination and remuneration committee has reviewed the implementation and compliance
                process of the performance evaluation at its meeting held on 14 March 2023.
            l   Based on the report of performance evaluation, the Board and nomination and remuneration
                committee at their meetings held on 14 March 2023, determined as required under law that the
                appointment of independent directors may continue.
            l   Details on the evaluation of Board, non-independent directors and chairman of the Company
                as carried out by the independent directors at their meeting held on 14 March 2023 have been
                furnished in a separate para elsewhere in this Report.


            Remuneration policy
            On the recommendation of the nomination and remuneration committee, the Board has framed a
            remuneration policy. This policy, inter alia, provides (a) the criteria for determining qualifications,
            positive attributes and independence of directors (b) a policy on remuneration for directors, key
            managerial personnel and other employees and (c) details of the employee stock option scheme. The
            policy is directed towards a compensation philosophy and structure that will reward and retain talent
            and provides for a balance between fixed and incentive pay, reflecting short and long-term
            performance objectives appropriate to the working of the Company and its goals. The said
            remuneration policy is placed on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/
            policies-codes


            Familiarisation programme
            To familiarise independent directors with the Company’s operations, as required under regulation 25(7)
            of the Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company has held various programmes/presentations for the
            independent directors throughout the year on an ongoing and continuous basis. Details of these are
            placed on https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

            During FY2023, the directors were updated extensively on the following through presentations
            at Board meetings:

            l   Risk management framework including Business and Operational risks, Financial risks,
                and Information risks (including cyber security).
            l   Updates on domestic motorcycle business, domestic three-wheeler and Qute business,
                export business, budget and volume opportunities for KTM, Husqvarna and EV Markets.
            l   Operating plans and business updates of its subsidiaries


            Whistle blower policy/Vigil mechanism
            The Company has a whistle blower policy encompassing vigil mechanism pursuant to the requirements
            of the section 177(9) of the Act and regulation 22 of the Listing Regulations, 2015.

            The whistle blower policy/vigil mechanism provides a route for directors/employees to report, without
            fear of victimisation, any unethical behaviour, suspected or actual fraud, violation of the Company’s
            code of conduct and instances of leak of unpublished price sensitive information, which are detrimental
            to the organisation’s interest. The mechanism protects whistle blower from any kind of discrimination,
            harassment, victimisation or any other unfair employment practice.

            The said policy has been appropriately communicated to the employees within the organisation and
            also has been placed on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

            The directors in all cases and employees in appropriate cases have direct access to the chairman of the
            audit committee. The Company affirms that no employee has been denied access to the audit
            committee, which is charged with overseeing this policy.

            During the year, four complaints have been received under the above mechanism. The cases
            investigated were mainly of the nature of fraud, misbehaviour, misuse of company’s vehicle etc.
            Appropriate actions have been taken where the case is proved. The financial impact of these cases was
            insignificant and caused no material damages to the Company.




42     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion     Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis              Governance     Information            Report            Financials




                Dividend distribution policy
                The Company has adopted a dividend distribution policy. More particulars are given in the
                Directors’ Report.

                Subsidiary companies
                The Company has five overseas subsidiaries, viz. PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia, Bajaj Auto International
                Holdings BV, Netherlands, Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd., Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U. and Bajaj Do Brasil
                Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda and two Indian subsidiaries viz. Chetak Technology Ltd. and Bajaj Auto
                Consumer Finance Ltd. None of these are ‘material subsidiaries’ as defined under regulation 16(1)(c) of
                the Listing Regulations, 2015.

                The Company’s policy for determination of material subsidiary in terms of regulation 16(1)(c) of the
                Listing Regulations, 2015 is placed on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/
                policies-codes

                Provisions to the extent applicable and as required under regulation 24 of the Listing Regulations, 2015
                with reference to subsidiary companies were duly complied with.

                During the year, the audit committee reviewed the financial statements (in particular, the investments
                made) of its unlisted subsidiary companies, to the extent applicable. Minutes of the Board meetings of
                the subsidiary companies as well as a statement of significant transactions and arrangements entered
                into by the subsidiaries, as applicable, were regularly placed before the Board of the Company.

                During FY2023, no company became or ceased to be our subsidiary or joint venture company.


                Related party transactions
                All related party transactions (RPTs) which were entered into by the Company during the year under review,
                were on arms’ length basis and in the ordinary course of business, did not attract provisions of section 188
                of the Act and were also not material RPTs as per regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations, 2015.

                All RPTs during FY2023 were entered into with the approval of the audit committee. On a quarterly basis,
                details of such transactions were placed before the audit committee for noting/review.

                A statement showing the disclosure of transactions with related parties as required under Indian
                Accounting Standard 24 (Ind AS-24) is set out separately in this Annual Report. Disclosures relating to RPTs
                on a half-yearly basis are filed with the stock exchanges.

                During the year under review, there were no material transactions entered into with related parties, which
                may have had any potential conflict with the interests of the Company. However, during the year, prior
                approval of shareholders was obtained for the material transactions with KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH
                (Associate of Bajaj Auto Limited’s 100% subsidiary, Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV, based in
                Netherlands) vide ordinary resolution through postal ballot on 21 November 2022 as it was estimated that
                the transaction value would cross the applicable materiality thresholds under the amended the Listing
                Regulations, 2015 (i.e. H 1,000 crore, or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last audited
                financial statements of the listed entity, whichever is lower).

                The policy on materiality of RPTs stipulating threshold limits and also on dealing with RPTs including
                material modifications definitions which was approved by the Board pursuant to the amended Listing
                Regulations, 2015, has been placed on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/
                policies-codes

                During the year under review, several amendments made by SEBI in the matter relating to RPTs came into
                effect. All the requirements, including the additional disclosure requirements with regard to loans and
                advances to subsidiaries, associates and firms/companies in which directors are interested have been
                duly complied.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited         43
Board of         Management          Chairman’s         Management Discussion           Corporate          General Shareholder         Directors’
Directors        Team                Letter             and Analysis                    Governance         Information                 Report       Financials




            Disclosures
            Suitable disclosures have been made in the financial statements, together with the management’s
            explanation in the event of any treatment being different from that prescribed in the Ind AS.


            Core skills/Expertise/Competencies
            As stipulated under Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, 2015, core skills/expertise/competencies, as
            required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively and those actually
            available with the Board have been identified by the Board of directors.

            As a green initiative, the Chart/matrix of such core skills/expertise/competence along with the names
            of directors who possess such skills has been placed on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.
            com/investors/policies-codes

            Audit Committee
            The Company has constituted an audit committee. The Board reviews the working of the Committee
            from time to time to bring about greater effectiveness in order to comply with the various requirements
            under the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015.

            In compliance with the provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015, all members of the audit
            committee are independent, non–executive directors, are financially literate and have accounting or
            related financial management expertise.

            The terms of reference of the committee are in accordance with the Act and the Listing Regulations,
            2015. The detailed terms of reference of the committee can be accessed at https://www.bajajauto.com/
            investors/policies-codes


            Meetings and attendance
            During FY2023, the audit committee met five times: 27 April 2022, 26 July 2022, 14 October 2022,
            25 January 2023 and 14 March 2023. These meetings were scheduled well in advance and not more
            than one hundred and twenty days elapsed between any two such meetings.

            In addition to members of the audit committee, these meetings were attended by the heads of finance
            and internal audit functions and the statutory auditor of the Company and such executives who were
            considered necessary for providing inputs to the committee.

            The company secretary acted as the secretary to the audit committee.

            Table 4: Composition of the audit committee and attendance of members for FY2023

            Name of director                        Category                                                 No. of meetings attended



            Anami N. Roy                            Chairman, non-executive, independent                                      5/5
            D J Balaji Rao                          Non-executive, independent                                                5/5
            Dr. Naushad Forbes                      Non-executive, independent                                                5/5
            Pradip Shah*                            Non-executive, independent                                                4/4
            *Subsequent to resignation of Dr. Gita Piramal on 30 April 2022 (with effect from close of business hours), the Board of Directors
            appointed Pradip Shah as a member of the committee with effect from 14 June 2022 in her place.


            The audit committee, inter alia, discussed and deliberated on the financial results, appointment/
            re-appointment of statutory auditors, review of internal audit functions, review and approval of RPTs
            including granting of omnibus approval for the proposed transactions, review of investment-related
            reports of the Company, utilisation of loans and/or advances from/investment by the Company in
            subsidiaries, etc.




44     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                            16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management       Chairman’s         Management Discussion           Corporate           General Shareholder         Directors’
Directors     Team             Letter             and Analysis                    Governance          Information                 Report              Financials




                Anami N. Roy, chairman of the audit committee, was present at the Company’s annual general meeting
                held on 26 July 2022.

                During FY2023, the Board accepted all recommendations of the committee.

                Nomination and remuneration committee
                The Company has constituted a nomination and remuneration committee. The terms of reference
                of the committee are in accordance with the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015. The committee
                also acts as a compensation committee for implementation of the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
                Scheme 2019.

                The detailed terms of reference of the committee have been placed on the Company’s website at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

                During FY2023, the committee met three times: 27 April 2022, 14 October 2022 and 14 March 2023.

                Table 5: Composition of nomination and remuneration committee and attendance
                of its members for FY2023

                Name of director                        Category                                                 No. of meetings attended



                D J Balaji Rao                          Chairman, non-executive, independent                                      3/3
                Dr. Naushad Forbes                      Non-executive, independent                                                3/3
                Niraj Bajaj                             Non-executive, non-independent                                            3/3
                Abhinav Bindra*                         Non-executive, independent                                                2/2

                * Subsequent to resignation of Dr. Gita Piramal on 30 April 2022 (with effect from close of business hours), the Board of Directors
                appointed Abhinav Bindra as a member of the committee with effect from 14 June 2022 in her place.


                The company secretary acted as the secretary to this committee.

                As provided under the terms of reference of the nomination and remuneration committee, the
                members, inter alia, discussed and deliberated on re-appointment of independent directors,
                remuneration payable to senior management, directors and key managerial personnel, review of
                performance evaluation process and criteria, grant of stock options etc.

                D J Balaji Rao, chairman of the nomination and remuneration committee, was present at the annual
                general meeting of the Company held on 26 July 2022.

                During FY2023, the Board accepted all recommendations of the committee.


                Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option Scheme 2019
                (BAL-ESOS 2019)
                BAL-ESOS 2019 has been formulated by the nomination and remuneration committee of the Board to
                provide competitive remuneration opportunities to employees of the Company, through annual and
                long-term incentive plans. It was approved by the Board at its meeting held on 30 January 2019, and
                by members of the Company by a special resolution through postal ballot on 13 March 2019.

                Risk management committee
                The Company has a risk management committee. The terms of reference of the committee are in
                accordance with the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015. The detailed terms of reference of the
                committee have been placed on the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.bajajauto.
                com/investors/policies-codes




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited           45
Board of         Management          Chairman’s         Management Discussion           Corporate          General Shareholder         Directors’
Directors        Team                Letter             and Analysis                    Governance         Information                 Report       Financials




            The Company has a Board-approved risk management framework. The committee and the Board
            periodically review the company’s risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that
            management identifies, controls and mitigate various risks through a properly defined framework.

            During FY2023, the Company neither traded in nor had any exposure in commodities markets.

            During FY2023, the committee met three times: 26 July 2022, 14 October 2022 and 14 March 2023.

            The frequency of the meetings has been maintained to have a closer oversight of the risk management
            practices and to meet the amended the Listing Regulations, 2015.

            Table 6: Composition of the risk management committee and attendance record
            of its members for FY2023

            Name of director                        Category                                                    No. of meetings attended



            Anami N. Roy                            Chairman, non-executive, independent                                      3/3
            D J Balaji Rao                          Non-executive, independent                                                3/3
            Rakesh Sharma                           Executive                                                                 3/3

            During FY2023, the Board accepted all recommendations of the committee.

            Stakeholders’ relationship committee
            The Company has a stakeholders’ relationship committee to specifically oversee shareholders’ and
            investors’ complaints on matters relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of annual report,
            non-receipt of dividend, payment of unclaimed dividends etc. The terms of reference of the committee
            are in accordance with the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015. The detailed terms of reference of the
            Committee have been placed on the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.bajajauto.
            com/investors/policies-codes

            During FY2023, the committee met on 25 January 2023 to review the status of investors’ services
            rendered. At the meeting, the committee also discussed on matters that can facilitate better investor
            services and relations. The Board was apprised of all the major developments on investors’ issues
            through various reports and statements furnished to the Board from time to time throughout the year.

            Table 7: Composition of stakeholders’ relationship committee and attendance
            record of members for FY2023
                                                                                                             Attendance at the meeting
            Name of director                        Category                                                 held on 25 January 2023



            D J Balaji Rao                          Chairman, non-executive, independent                                      Yes
            Niraj Bajaj                             Non-executive, non-independent                                            Yes
            Ms. Lila Poonawalla*                    Non-executive, independent                                                Yes
            * Subsequent to resignation of Dr. Gita Piramal on 30 April 2022 (with effect from close of business hours), the Board of Directors
            appointed Ms. Lila Poonawalla as a member of the committee with effect from 14 June 2022 in her place.

            The company secretary acts as the compliance officer and as the secretary to the committee.
            The secretarial auditor was also present at the meeting.

            The committee expressed its satisfaction on the overall status of compliance and actions taken on
            various investor-related matters.

            D J Balaji Rao, chairman of the stakeholders’ relationship committee, was present at the annual general
            meeting of the Company held on 26 July 2022.




46     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis            Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited    47
Board of        Management      Chairman’s         Management Discussion   Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter             and Analysis            Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Table 8: Investors’ complaints attended and resolved during FY2023

            Investors’ complaints                                                   Attended/resolved during the year



            Pending at the beginning of the year                                                    -
            Received during the year                                                               14
            Disposed of during the year                                                            14
            Pending at the end of the year                                                          -


            More details on this subject and on shareholders’ related matters including unclaimed suspense
            account have been furnished in General Shareholder Information.

            Duplicate share certificate issuance committee
            To meet the requirement of section 46 of the Act, read with rule 6 of the Companies (Share Capital and
            Debentures) Rules, 2014 and regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company has duplicate
            share certificate issuance committee to approve issuing of duplicate share certificate(s) in lieu of
            original share certificate(s) that were lost or misplaced, the composition of which is given in
            Table 9 below.

            As a measure to enhance ease of dealing in securities market by the investors, SEBI through its circular
            dated 25 January 2022 has mandated listed entities to issue of securities in dematerialised form only
            while processing any service request including issue of duplicate share certificate.

            Table 9: Composition of the duplicate share certificate issuance committee and
            attendance record of its members for FY2023
                                                                                             Attendance at the meeting
            Name of director                 Category                                         held on 25 January 2023



            Rajiv Bajaj                      Managing Director and CEO, executive                       Yes
            Pradeep Shrivastava              Whole-time Director, executive                             Yes
            Rakesh Sharma                    Whole-time Director, executive                             Yes



            Independent directors’ meeting
            In compliance with Schedule IV to the Act and regulation 25(3) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, the
            independent directors held their separate meeting on 14 March 2023, without the attendance of
            non-independent directors and members of management.

            All independent directors were present at the meeting.

            The independent directors present elected D J Balaji Rao as Chairman for the meeting.

            The independent directors inter alia discussed on report of performance evaluation of Board, its
            committees and chairman, changes in the Board, assessment of quality, quantity and timeliness of flow
            of information between the Company’s management and the Board etc. and expressed their satisfaction
            on each of the matters.

            In addition, the independent directors had a separate meeting with senior management regarding its
            views and strategies pertaining to the business and functions.




48     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis             Governance     Information           Report           Financials




                Remuneration of directors
                Pecuniary relationship/transaction with non-executive directors
                During FY2023, there was no pecuniary relationship or transaction with any non-executive director of
                the Company, apart from their remuneration as directors.

                The register of contracts is maintained by the Company pursuant to section 189 of the Act. This is
                signed by all the directors present at respective Board meetings.

                During FY2023, the Company did not advance any loans to any of the non-executive directors and/or the
                managing director.


                Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors
                As stated earlier, the remuneration policy disclosing the criteria of making payments to directors, key
                managerial personnel and employees is placed on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajauto.
                com/investors/policies-codes


                Details of remuneration to directors
                Non-executive directors
                As stated earlier in this report, non-executive directors are paid sitting fees and commission.

                Details of remuneration paid or payable to non-executive directors during FY2023 are given in Table 10.
                The same are also provided in the Form MGT-7, i.e. the annual return which can be accessed at https://
                www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance


                Executive directors
                During the year, the Company paid remuneration to Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO (‘MD’) and
                Pradeep Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, executive directors (‘EDs’) of the Company as given in
                Table 10 and also provided in detail in Form MGT-7, i.e. the annual return. The same can be accessed at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

                The tenure of MD and EDs is of five years each. MD and EDs are also entitled to other perquisites and
                benefits mentioned in the agreement entered into by them with the Company.

                Executive directors are entitled to superannuation benefits payable in the form of an annuity from an
                approved life insurance company, which form part of the perquisites allowed to them.

                During the year, none of the directors was paid any performance-linked incentive, apart from Pradeep
                Shrivastava and Rakesh Sharma, who are executive directors.

                As stated elsewhere in this report, the Company has adopted the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
                Scheme 2019 for the benefit of the permanent employees and/or directors of the Company and/or its
                holding (if any, in future) and subsidiary Company(ies), but excluding independent directors and any
                employee who is a promoter or belongs to the promoter group.

                During the year, 23,880 options each were granted to the EDs at a grant price of H 3,892.10, being the
                closing market price on the NSE on the day preceding the day of grant. These grants will vest over a
                period of four years (25% every year) after a period of one year from the date of grant. No pension is
                paid by the Company.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited       49
Board of         Management         Chairman’s         Management Discussion          Corporate         General Shareholder            Directors’
Directors        Team               Letter             and Analysis                   Governance        Information                    Report       Financials




            Table 10: Remuneration paid/payable to directors for FY2023
                                                                                                                                (Amount in H )

                                                                                         Salary and
            Name of director           Category                             Sitting fees perquisites          Commission                   Total



            Niraj Bajaj                Chairman, non-executive,                1,100,000                 –        2,750,000        3,850,000
                                       non-independent
            Madhur Bajaj               Vice Chairman,                            700,000                 –        1,750,000        2,450,000
                                       non-executive,
                                       non-independent
            Shekhar Bajaj*             Non-executive,                            300,000                 –          750,000        1,050,000
                                       non-independent
            Rajiv Bajaj                Managing Director and CEO,                        – 181,235,386         294,498,000 475,733,386
                                       executive
            Sanjiv Bajaj               Non-executive,                            700,000                 –        1,750,000        2,450,000
                                       non-independent
            D J Balaji Rao             Non-executive, independent              1,900,000                 –        4,750,000        6,650,000
            Pradeep Shrivastava Whole-time Director,                                     – 101,172,173                      – 101,172,173
                                executive
            Dr. Naushad Forbes         Non-executive, independent              1,400,000                 –        3,500,000        4,900,000
            Anami N. Roy               Non-executive, independent              1,400,000                 –        3,500,000        4,900,000
            Rakesh Sharma              Whole-time Director,                              – 103,720,392                      – 103,720,392
                                       executive
            Ms. Lila Poonawalla        Non-executive, independent                800,000                 –        2,000,000        2,800,000
            Pradip Shah                Non-executive, independent              1,100,000                 –        2,750,000        3,850,000
            Abhinav Bindra             Non-executive, independent                900,000                 –        2,250,000        3,150,000
            * Shekhar Bajaj resigned as non-executive, non-independent director of the Company w.e.f. closing hours of 30 June 2022.



            Management
            Management discussion and analysis
            This is given as separate chapter in the Annual Report.


            Disclosure of material transactions
            Pursuant to regulation 26(5) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, senior management has made periodical
            disclosures to the Board relating to all material financial and commercial transactions, where they had
            (or were deemed to have had) personal interest that might have been in potential conflict with the
            interest of the Company. There was only one case involving a member of the senior management.
            In this instance, the disclosure was discussed, reviewed and found in order by the Board.


            Compliances regarding insider trading
            Pursuant to SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, (‘SEBI PIT
            Regulations’) the Company has a Board approved code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report
            trading by insiders (‘Code of Conduct’) and a code of practices and procedures for fair disclosure of
            unpublished price sensitive information (‘Code of Fair Disclosure’).

            Wherever non-compliance by an employee concerned was observed, penalty was levied and the
            amount was remitted to the stipulated fund.

            By frequent communication, the Company makes designated employees conversant of the obligations
            under the insider trading regulations.




50     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                         16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion      Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter          and Analysis               Governance      Information            Report           Financials




                The audit committee and the Board at its meeting held on 14 March 2023 had reviewed the compliance
                in terms regulation 9A(4) of the SEBI PIT Regulations and confirmed that the systems for internal
                control with respect to the SEBI PIT Regulations are adequate and are operating effectively.

                Means of communication
                Quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results and other public notices issued for the shareholders
                are published in numerous leading dailies, such as Financial Express, Business Standard, Kesari, Mint and
                Hindu Business Line. An official press release is also issued.

                The Company also sends its half-yearly financial results along with a detailed write-up to shareholders.

                The Company website, www.bajajauto.com, contains all important public domain information including
                presentations, if any, made to the media, analysts and institutional investors. It contains information as
                prescribed under the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015, including details of the corporate contact
                persons and share transfer agent of the Company, shareholding pattern etc.

                Section 20 and 136 of the Act, read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 permit companies to
                service delivery of documents electronically at the registered members’/shareholders’ email
                addresses.

                During the year under review, the Company sent documents, such as notice calling the general meeting,
                audited financial statements, directors’ report, auditors’ report, credit of dividend intimation letters, etc. in
                electronic form at the email addresses provided by the shareholders and made available by them to the
                Company through the depositories. Shareholders desiring to receive the said documents in physical form
                continued to get these physically upon request.

                All financial and other vital official news releases and documents under the Listing Regulations, 2015 are
                also communicated to the concerned stock exchanges, besides being placed on the Company’s website.


                Information on general body meetings and special resolution(s) passed
                During the previous three years, the annual general meetings (AGM) of the Company were held at the
                registered office at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 on the following dates and time. In these,
                the following special resolutions were passed:

                Details of AGM Date and time of AGM Details of special resolution(s) passed at the AGM, if any



                13th AGM         22 July 2020 at          1. Re-appointment of Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj as
                (e-AGM)          12.15 p.m.                  Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the
                                                             Company for a period of five years with effect from 1 April 2020
                                                          2. Re-appointment of Dr. Gita Piramal as an Independent
                                                             Director of the Company for a second term of five consecutive
                                                             years with effect from 1 April 2020
                14th AGM         22 July 2021 at          1. Re-appointment of Pradeep Shrivastava as Whole-time Director
                (e-AGM)          12.15 p.m.                  of the Company for a period of five years with effect from
                                                             1 April 2021
                                                          2. Approval for payment of commission to Non-executive Directors
                                                             for a period of five years commencing from 1 April 2021
                15th AGM         26 July 2022 at          1. Re-appointment of Dr. Naushad Forbes as an
                (e-AGM)          02:00 p.m.                  Independent Director of the Company for a second term of
                                                             five consecutive years with effect from 18 May 2022
                                                          2. Re-appointment of Anami N. Roy as an Independent Director of
                                                             the Company for a second term of five consecutive years with
                                                             effect from 14 September 2022
                All resolutions proposed by the Board have been passed with requisite majority by the shareholders.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                      Bajaj Auto Limited       51
Board of        Management      Chairman’s      Management Discussion   Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter          and Analysis            Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Postal ballot
            During FY2023, the Company had sought approval of the members through postal ballot (ordinary
            resolution) and the details of the same are given below:


                                                              Votes (No. of shares and %)           Date of passing
            Particulars                                           In favour                 Against the resolution



            Approval of related party transaction                73,354,532                     911
            with KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH.                         (99.93%)                 (0.00%) 21 November 2022
            The Company had appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 1587,
            CP No. 572) as scrutiniser for conducting the postal ballot including remote e-voting process in a fair
            and transparent manner.


            Procedure for postal ballot
            Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company provides facility to
            the members to exercise votes through electronic voting system (‘remote e-voting’), in addition to
            physical ballot. Postal ballot notices and forms are dispatched along with the postage pre-paid
            business reply envelope to members/beneficial owners through email at their registered email IDs and
            through physical copy to the members who have not registered their email IDs.

            The Company also publishes notice in the newspapers for the information of the members. Voting
            rights are reckoned on the equity shares held by the members as on the cut-off date.

            Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, the Company appoints a scrutiniser for conducting the postal
            ballot process in a fair and transparent manner. The scrutiniser submits his consolidated report to the
            Chairman and the voting results are announced by the Chairman by placing the same along with the
            scrutiniser’s report on the Company’s website, besides being communicated to the stock exchanges.

            In view of the relaxation granted by MCA, postal ballot notice was sent through email only, to all those
            members who had registered their email IDs with the Company/depositories. Arrangements were also
            made for other members to register their email IDs to receive the postal ballot notice and cast their
            vote online.



            Details of capital market non-compliance, if any
            There was no non-compliance of any legal requirements; nor has there been any penalty or structure
            imposed on the Company by any stock exchange, SEBI or any statutory authority on any matter related
            to capital markets during the last three years.




52     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis            Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited    53
Board of           Management    Chairman’s        Management Discussion   Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors          Team          Letter            and Analysis            Governance     Information            Report         Financials




            Disclosure under Sexual Harassment of Women at
            Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
            Act, 2013
            This disclosure is given in the Directors’ Report.

            Compliance certificate
            The Managing Director and CEO and the CFO have certified to the Board regarding the financial
            statements and other such matters as required under regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II to
            the Listing Regulations, 2015.

            Report on corporate governance
            This chapter, read together with the information given in the Directors’ Report and the chapters on
            Management Discussion and Analysis and General Shareholder Information, constitute the compliance
            report on corporate governance during FY2023. The Company has been regularly forwarding the
            quarterly compliance report to the stock exchanges as required under regulation 27(2) of the Listing
            Regulations, 2015.

            Statutory auditors
            S R B C & CO LLP are the statutory auditors of the Company. Total fees paid by the Company and its
            subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis to the auditors including all entities in their network firm/entity of
            which they are a part is given below:
                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)

            Sr. No.   Particulars                                          Statutory Audit Fee       Other Services



               1      Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                                      1.80                        2.15
               2      PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                                   -                         -
               3      Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV, Netherlands                          -                         -
               4      Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                           0.06                            -
               5      Chetak Technology Ltd.                                               0.02                            -
               6      Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.                                                    -                         -
               7      Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda                              -                         -




            Auditors’ certificate on corporate governance
            The Company has obtained the certificate from its statutory auditors regarding compliance with the
            provisions relating to corporate governance laid down in Part E of Schedule V to the Listing Regulations,
            2015. This is annexed to the Directors’ Report and will be sent to the stock exchanges, along with the
            Annual Report to be filed by the Company.




54     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion    Corporate       General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis             Governance      Information           Report        Financials




                Compliance of mandatory and discretionary
                requirements
                Mandatory
                The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of the Listing Regulations, 2015.


                Discretionary
                The Company has also complied with the discretionary requirements as under:

                1. The Board
                    A Chairman’s office has been made available for the non-executive Chairman. He is allowed
                    reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties.

                2. Shareholder rights
                    A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of significant events in the
                    preceding six months is sent to each household of shareholders.

                3. Modified opinion(s) in audit report
                    The Company confirms that its financial statements are with unmodified audit opinion.

                4. Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing Director
                    The positions of Chairperson and Managing Director are held by two different persons who are not
                    related to each other.

                5. Reporting of the Internal Auditor
                    The internal auditor reports directly to the audit committee.




                Declaration by Chief Executive Officer (MD)
                [Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V (Part D) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
                Requirements) Regulations, 2015]

                I, Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director and CEO of Bajaj Auto Ltd. hereby declare that all the members of
                Board of Directors and Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of
                Board of Directors and Senior Management of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023.




                Rajiv Bajaj
                Managing Director and CEO

                Pune: 25 April 2023




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited     55
Board of          Management    Chairman’s          Management Discussion   Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors         Team          Letter              and Analysis            Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            List of key policies of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
            Information on the Company’s website, regarding key policies, codes and charters, adopted by
            the Company:

             Sr.
             No.    Name of Policy                       Website Link



              1     Whistle Blower Policy                https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-
                                                         policy/Whistle-Blower-Policy.ashx
              2     Remuneration Policy                  https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                                                         Policies/Corporate-Governance/BAL---Revised-Remuneration-
                                                         Policy-25-Apr-2023.ashx
              3     Policy of materiality and dealing https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                    with related party transactions Policies/Corporate-Governance/revised-rpt-policy-15-march-2022.
                                                      ashx
              4     Policy for determining Material      https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                    Subsidiaries                         Policies/Corporate-Governance/bal-policy-for-determining-
                                                         material-subsidiries.ashx
              5     Policy on determination of           https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                    materiality for disclosure of        Policies/Corporate-Governance/bal-policy-on-determination-of-
                    events or information                materiality.ashx
              6     Performance Evaluation Criteria https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                    for Board, Committees of Board, Policies/Corporate-Governance/final-evaluation-criteria-for-ids.
                    Chairperson and Directors       ashx
              7     Dividend Distribution Policy         https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-
                                                         policy/Revised-Dividend-Distribution-Policy-17-March-2021.ashx
              8     Corporate Social                     https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-
                    Responsibility Policy                policy/BAL-Revised-CSR-Policy-29-April-2021.ashx
              9     Fair Disclosure Code                 https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                                                         Policies/Corporate-Governance/Code-of-fair-disclosure.ashx
             10     Code of Conduct for Directors        https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                    and Members of Senior                Policies/Corporate-Governance/BAL---Amended-Code-of-Conduct-
                    Management.                          25-Apr-2023.ashx
             11     Archival Policy                      https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/
                                                         Codes-Policies/Corporate-Governance/bal-policy-on-archival-of-
                                                         disclosures.ashx
             12     Human Rights Policy                  https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-
                                                         policy/Human-Rights-Policy.ashx
             13     Supplier Code of Conduct             https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-
                                                         policy/Supplier-Code-of-Conduct-SCoC-BAL.ashx
             14     Sustainability Policy                https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                                                         Policies/Plants-Operations/Bajaj-Sustainability-Policy.ashx
             15     Quality Policy                       https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                                                         Policies/Plants-Operations/Bajaj-Quality-Policy.ashx
             16     Safety, Occupational Health and https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                    Environmental (SHE) Policy      Policies/Plants-Operations/Bajaj-Policy-SHE-Eng.ashx
             17     The Prime Mover Policy               https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Investors/Codes-
                                                         Policies/Plants-Operations/Bajaj-TPM-Policy.ashx




56     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion      Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter          and Analysis               Governance   Information           Report         Financials




                        GENERAL
                        SHAREHOLDER
                        INFORMATION
                16th Annual General Meeting (AGM)
                Date                              25 July 2023
                Day                               Tuesday
                Time                              2:00 PM
                Venue                             Registered office at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035
                Remote e-voting starts            22 July 2023 at 9.00 a.m.
                Remote e-voting ends              24 July 2023 at 5.00 p.m.
                E-voting at AGM                   Tuesday, 25 July 2023
                Financial Year                    1 April to 31 March


                Financial calendar
                Approval of audited annual results for year ending 31 March                   April/ May
                Mailing of annual reports                                                     June
                Annual general meeting                                                        July
                Unaudited first quarter financial results                                     July
                Unaudited second quarter financial results                                    October
                Unaudited third quarter financial results                                     January/ early February



                Share transfer agent
                The Company has appointed KFin Technologies Ltd. (KFin), as its registrar and share transfer agent for
                processing of share transfer/dematerialisation/rematerialisation and allied activities.

                All physical transfers (to the extent permitted), transmission, transposition, issue of duplicate share
                certificate(s), issue of demand drafts in lieu of dividend warrants, etc. as well as requests for
                dematerialisation/rematerialisation are being processed in periodical cycles at KFin. Work related to
                dematerialisation/rematerialisation is handled by KFin through connectivity with National Securities
                Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL).

                Review of service standards adhered by KFin with
                respect to share related activities
                The Company has agreed service timelines and standards for various shareholder-related service with
                KFin. On an on-going basis, the secretarial team engages with officials of KFin at various levels for
                review of these standards and other shares-related activities. Periodic meetings and discussions are
                held to understand the concerns of shareholders, deviations, if any, in the timelines for processing
                service requests, best practices and other measures to strengthen shareholder-related services.
                In addition, the activities at KFin are also reviewed by the internal audit team periodically.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited      57
Board of        Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter          and Analysis             Governance     Information             Report       Financials




            Record date
            The Company has fixed Friday, 30 June 2023 as the ‘Record Date’ for the purpose of determining the
            members eligible to receive dividend for the financial year 2022-23.

            Dividend and date of dividend payment
            The Board has proposed a dividend of H 140 per equity share (1400%) of the face value of
            H 10 for the financial year 2022-23, subject to approval of members at the ensuing AGM as against
            H 140 per equity share (1400%) for the previous year.

            Dividend on equity shares, if declared, at the AGM, will be credited/dispatched on 28 July 2023,
            as under:

            a) to all those shareholders holding shares in physical form, as per the details provided to the
               Company by the share transfer agent of the Company i.e., KFin, as on closing hours on
               Friday, 30 June 2023 and

            b) to all those beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form as per beneficial ownership details
               provided to the Company by NSDL and CDSL, as of the closing hours of the day on
               Friday, 30 June 2023.

            Payment of dividend
            SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the SEBI Listing Regulations,
            2015) read with SEBI circular dated 20 April 2018, require companies to use any electronic mode of
            payment approved by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for making payment to shareholders. Accordingly,
            the dividend, if declared, will be paid through electronic mode, where the bank account details of
            members are available. Where dividend payments are made through electronic mode, intimation
            regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the shareholders.

            In cases where the dividend cannot be paid through electronic mode, it will be paid by account payee
            non-negotiable instruments/warrants with bank account details printed thereon. In case of
            non-availability of bank account details, address of the members will be printed on such payment
            instruments.

            Pursuant to the circular mentioned above, the Company has written to shareholders holding shares in
            physical form requesting them to furnish details regarding their PAN and also their bank details for
            payment of dividend through electronic mode. Those shareholders who are yet to respond to the
            Company’s appeal in this regard are again requested to take action on this matter at the earliest.

            Members are requested to submit PAN, contact details, Bank account details and specimen signature
            (as applicable) to their Depository Participant (DP) in case of holding in dematerialised form or to KFin
            (through Form ISR-1, Form ISR-2) in case of holdings in physical form. The said forms are available at
            https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/miscellaneous

            To enable payment of dividend through electronic mode, members holding shares in physical form are
            requested to furnish, on or before 30 June 2023, updated particulars of their bank accounts to KFin
            through Forms ISR-1 & ISR-2 along with a photocopy of a cancelled cheque of the bank account and
            self-attested copy of PAN card.

            Beneficial owners holding shares in electronic form are requested to furnish their bank account details
            to their respective depository participants and ensure that such changes are recorded by them
            correctly before 30 June 2023. The request to update particulars of bank account should be signed as
            per the specimen signature registered with KFin/depository participants, as the case may be.




58     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion       Corporate     General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis                Governance    Information           Report         Financials




                Tax deducted at source (TDS) on dividend
                Pursuant to the changes introduced by the Finance Act, 2020, w.e.f. 1 April 2020 as in the previous year,
                there will be no Dividend Distribution Tax payable by the Company. The dividend, declared, will be
                taxable in the hands of the shareholders subject to tax deduction at source at the applicable rates.
                The TDS rate would vary depending on the residential status of the shareholders and the documents
                submitted by them and accepted by the Company. For the detailed process and formats of declaration,
                please refer to FAQs on Tax Deduction at Source on Dividends available on the Company’s website at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/dividend

                Unclaimed dividends
                As per section 124(5) of Companies Act, 2013, any money transferred by the Company to the unpaid
                dividend account and remaining unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of such transfer
                shall be transferred to a fund called the Investor Education and Protection Fund (the ‘Fund’) set up by
                the Central Government.

                Accordingly, unpaid/unclaimed dividend for the financial years 2007-08 to 2013-14 has been already
                transferred by the Company to this said Fund from September 2015 onwards.

                Unclaimed dividend amounting to H 13,194,350/- in respect of financial year 2014-15 was transferred
                to the Fund in compliance with the provisions of section 125 of the Act in September 2022.

                Unpaid dividend amounting to H 1,39,09,350/- in respect of financial year 2015-16 (Interim) was
                transferred to the Fund in compliance with the provisions of section 125 of the Act in May 2023.

                Unpaid/unclaimed dividend (Final) for the financial year 2015-16 shall be due for transfer to the Fund in
                September 2023. Members are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, for the
                2015-16 before such amount become due for transfer. Communications are being sent to members,
                who have not yet claimed final dividend for 2015-16, requesting them to claim the same as well as
                unpaid dividend, if any, for subsequent years.

                As a measure to reduce the unclaimed dividend, efforts are being made on an ongoing basis to reach
                out to shareholders requesting them to submit necessary documents to enable them to claim their
                unpaid or unclaimed dividend.

                The following are the details of unclaimed dividends which are due to be transferred to the Fund in the
                coming years including current year. Once again, members who have not claimed the dividends till date
                are requested to verify their records and send their claim, if any, before the same becomes due for
                transfer as per the table given below.

                                                        Date of Declaration     Last date for
                Year             Dividend Type          AGM Date                claiming dividend    Due date for transfer



                2015-2016        Final                  27 July 2016            25 August 2023       24 September 2023
                2016-2017        Final                  20 July 2017            18 August 2024       17 September 2024
                2017-2018        Final                  20 July 2018            18 August 2025       17 September 2025
                2018-2019        Final                  26 July 2019            24 August 2026       23 September 2026
                                 Interim
                2019-2020        (confirmed as Final)   09 March 2020           07 April 2027        06 May 2027
                2020-2021        Final                  22 July 2021            20 August 2028       19 September 2028


                2021-2022        Final                  26 July 2022            25 August 2029       24 September 2029

                The Company has uploaded details of unclaimed dividend on its website at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/dividend and also on website specified by the Ministry of
                Corporate Affairs https://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPFWebProject/services.html




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited      59
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis             Governance      Information            Report       Financials




            Initiatives for reduction of unclaimed dividend
            The Company with a view to reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividend has undertaken several steps
            as was done in the last few years. These primarily included proactively reaching out to shareholders,
            sending periodic communications, advising the shareholders who approach the Company/KFin for
            other service request to claim their dividend, if any and remitting unpaid dividend, if any for KYC
            compliant folios. The amount is remitted based on the verification of the documents and bonafides of
            the claim.

            As a result, significant amount of unclaimed dividend was remitted to the shareholders during the year
            under review. The Company will endeavour to undertake additional initiatives in this regard.

            Transfer of shares to IEPF
            Pursuant to section 124(6) of Companies Act, 2013 and the Investor Education and Protection Fund
            Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, as amended (the ‘IEPF Rules’), all
            shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or
            more shall be transferred by the Company to the IEPF, within 30 days of such shares becoming due
            for transfer.

            Accordingly, the Company will send individual letters through ordinary/speed post and e-mail to such
            shareholders, whose dividend from the year 2015-16 has remained unclaimed, requesting them to
            claim the amount of unpaid dividend on or before the date on which Company must transfer the related
            shares to the demat account of IEPF. The Company also publishes, on an annual basis, a notice in the
            newspapers intimating the members regarding the said transfer. These details are also be made
            available on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/disclosures

            During the year under review, the Company transferred 8,621 (previous year: 6,469) equity shares of
            the face value of H 10 each relating to 28 shareholders (previous year: 45) to the demat Account of the
            IEPF Authority held with NSDL/CDSL. Details of such shareholders, whose shares are transferred to
            IEPF and their unpaid dividends for subsequent years are available on the website of the Company at
            www.bajajauto.com

            Shareholders can claim such unpaid dividends and underlying shares transferred to the Fund by
            following the procedure prescribed in the IEPF Rules. A link to the procedure to claim is available on the
            Company’s website at www.bajajauto.com

            Shareholders are requested to get in touch with the compliance officer for further details on the subject
            at investors@bajajauto.co.in

            Share transfer system
            SEBI’s amended regulation 40 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, prohibits the transfer of securities
            (except transmission or transposition of shares) in physical form from 1 April 2019. Accordingly, the
            Company has sent letters to members holding shares in physical form advising them to dematerialise
            their holdings.

            SEBI vide its circulars dated 25 January 2022 and 25 May 2022 has provided the guidelines to issue the
            securities in dematerialised form by issuing a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical securities
            certificates to the securities holder/claimant within 30 days of its receipt of such request after
            removing objections, if any.

            Share transfers received by the share transfer agent/Company are registered within 15 days from the
            date of receipt, provided the documents are complete in all respects. The total number of shares
            transferred in the physical category during 2022-23 due to transmission/deletion of name cases was
            54,604 shares versus 117,310 shares during 2021-22. Such details were placed before the Board on a
            quarterly basis.




60     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis            Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited    61
Board of            Management    Chairman’s       Management Discussion    Corporate       General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors           Team          Letter           and Analysis             Governance      Information             Report        Financials




            Dematerialisation/Rematerialisation of shares
            During 2022-23, 14,829,398 shares were dematerialised, versus, 203,001 shares in 2021-22.
            Nil shares were rematerialised during 2022-23 versus 25 shares in 2021-22. Shares held in physical
            and electronic mode as on 31 March 2023 are in Table 1.

            Table 1: Shares held in physical and electronic mode
                                  Position as on 31 March 2023   Position as on 31 March 2022     Net change during 2022-23
                                                    % to total                      % to total                     % to total
            Particulars            No. of shares shareholding    No. of shares   shareholding     No. of shares shareholding


            Physical                   1,965,675          0.69      16,803,733             5.81    (14,838,058)         (5.12)
            Demat
            NSDL                    210,066,086          74.24    264,811,329             91.51    (54,745,243)        (17.27)
            CDSL                     70,925,597          25.07       7,751,958             2.68     63,173,639          22.39
            Sub-total               280,991,683          99.31    272,563,287             94.19      8,428,396           5.12
            Total                   282,957,358         100.00    289,367,020            100.00     (6,409,662)               -



            Stock code
            1. BSE Ltd., Mumbai                                                                      532977
            2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.                                                 BAJAJ-AUTO
            3. ISIN for depositories (NSDL and CDSL)                                                 INE917I01010
            4. Bloomberg                                                                             BJAUT.IN
            5. Reuters                                                                               BAJA.BO


            Listing on stock exchanges
            Shares of the Company are currently listed on the following stock exchanges:

            Name                                                  Address



            1. BSE Ltd. (BSE)                                     1st Floor, New Trading Ring Rotunda Building, P J Tower
                                                                  Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001.
            2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)        Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor Plot No.C-1, G Block Bandra-
                                                                  Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051.

            Pursuant to the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 the Company has entered into a Uniform Listing
            Agreement with BSE and NSE. For FY2023, the listing fees payable to these stock exchanges have been
            paid in full.




62     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                         16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management      Chairman’s             Management Discussion              Corporate             General Shareholder                 Directors’
Directors     Team            Letter                 and Analysis                       Governance            Information                         Report               Financials




                Market price data
                Table 2: Monthly highs and lows of Company’s shares in FY2023
                (K vis-à-vis BSE Sensex)

                                                                 BSE                                       NSE
                Month                                   High                      Low                  High                  Low       Closing BSE Sensex



                April-2022                           3,992.05                3,580.00            4,000.00           3,600.00                                   57,060.87
                May-2022                             3,956.10                3,461.30            3,958.00           3,460.00                                   55,566.41
                June-2022                            4,000.00                3,577.00            3,971.00           3,574.80                                   53,018.94
                July-2022                            4,091.90                3,601.20            4,091.00           3,601.10                                   57,570.25
                August-2022                          4,128.70                3,915.00            4,128.95           3,915.00                                   59,537.07
                September-2022                       4,130.15                3,462.05            4,131.75           3,461.25                                   57,426.92
                October-2022                         3,725.05                3,475.00            3,727.00           3,475.00                                   60,746.59
                November-2022                        3,817.55                3,585.00            3,818.65           3,585.00                                   63,099.65
                December-2022                        3,749.95                3,524.25            3,744.05           3,524.05                                   60,840.74
                January-2023                         3,993.05                3,522.00            3,995.00           3,520.05                                   59,549.90
                February-2023                        3,934.40                3,625.05            3,934.95           3,625.60                                   58,962.12
                March-2023                           3,945.00                3,640.95            3,945.50           3,636.90                                   58,991.52




                               Bajaj Auto Ltd. stock performance vs BSE Sensex, during 2022-23,
                                                 indexed to 100 on 31 March 2022

                             220

                             200

                             180
                             160
                    Price




                             140

                             120

                             100

                              80

                              60

                              40
                                   Apr 22


                                            May 22


                                                        Jun 22


                                                                    Jul 22


                                                                               Aug 22


                                                                                        Sep 22


                                                                                                  Oct 22


                                                                                                           Nov 22


                                                                                                                    Dec 22


                                                                                                                              Jan 23


                                                                                                                                         Feb 23


                                                                                                                                                      Mar 23




                                                                        31 March 2022 to 31 March 2023
                                                                 BSE Sensex                                Bajaj Auto Share Price




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited            63
Board of        Management       Chairman’s     Management Discussion     Corporate        General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team             Letter         and Analysis              Governance       Information            Report       Financials




            Distribution of shareholding
            Table 3 gives details about the pattern of shareholding across various categories as on 31 March 2023,
            while Table 4 gives the data according to size classes.

            Table 3: Distribution of shareholdings across Categories
                                                          As on 31 March 2023                   As on 31 March 2022
                                                                              % to total                         % to total
            Categories                                    No. of shares         capital      No. of shares         capital



            Promoters                                      155,580,309            54.98       155,580,109             53.76
            Friends and associates of promoters             21,814,676             7.71         22,001,460             7.60
            FPIs/FIIs                                       34,974,488            12.36         30,347,903            10.49
            Public Financial Institutions and
            Insurance Companies                             17,258,480             6.10         23,938,071             8.27
            Mutual Funds                                    10,040,695             3.55         13,884,292             4.80
            Nationalised and other banks                        19,559             0.01           306,397              0.11
            NRIs and OCBs                                    1,680,003             0.59          1,885,601             0.65
            Others                                          41,589,148            14.70         41,423,187            14.32
            Total                                         282,957,358            100.00       289,367,020           100.00



            Table 4: Distribution of shareholding according to size class as on 31 March 2023
                                                           No. of shareholders                Shares held in each class
            Category                                           Number                  %          Number                  %



            1 to 500                                           208,535            96.94          5,542,747             1.96
            501 to 1000                                          2,231             1.04          1,643,384             0.58
            1001 to 2000                                         1,399             0.65          2,026,304             0.72
            2001 to 3000                                           655             0.30          1,633,014             0.58
            3001 to 4000                                           384             0.18          1,354,729             0.48
            4001 to 5000                                           276             0.13          1,257,658             0.44
            5001 to 10000                                          611             0.28          4,323,840             1.53
            10001 to 20000                                         360             0.17          4,987,842             1.76
            20001 and above                                        659             0.31       260,187,840             91.95
            Total                                              215,110           100.00       282,957,358           100.00


            Shareholders’ and investors’ grievances
            The Board of directors of the Company has a stakeholders relationship committee to specifically look
            into and resolve grievances of security-holders on various matters.

            Routine queries/complaints received from shareholders are promptly attended to and replied.
            Queries/complaints received during FY2023 were relating to non-receipt of dividend by warrants as
            well as through electronic clearing service, TDS matters, clarification on holdings, non-receipt of annual
            report, and change of address and/or bank particulars. As on 31 March 2023, there was no pending
            issue to be addressed or resolved.




64     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion     Corporate         General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter          and Analysis              Governance        Information           Report          Financials




                During the year, letters were received from SEBI/the Registrar of Companies (ROC)/Stock Exchanges/
                Investors concerning fourteen complaints filed by the shareholders on various matters. For each of
                these complaints, replies were sent to SEBI/ROC/Stock Exchanges/Investors in the prescribed format
                and no action remained to be taken on the Company’s side at the year end.

                Green initiative
                The Company believes in driving environmental initiatives. As a step in this direction, it availed of
                special services offered by NSDL/CDSL to update email addresses of shareholders holding shares with
                depository participant registered with these entities and who have not registered their email addresses.
                This will enable such shareholders to immediately receive various email communication from the
                Company from time to time including the Annual Report, dividend credit intimation, half-yearly
                communication etc. Shareholders who have not updated their email, are requested to do so by sending
                a request to the Company/KFin or their respective depository participant.

                Also, the company has availed of the special services offered by NSDL/CDSL for sending SMS per
                demat account where email address is not registered.

                Demat suspense account with HDFC Bank for
                unclaimed shares
                In accordance with the provisions contained in clause 5A of the erstwhile Listing Agreement
                (corresponding to regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015) as amended by SEBI through
                its circular dated 16 December 2010, the Company, during 2011-12, had sent three reminders to such
                shareholders whose shares were lying ‘undelivered/unclaimed’ with the Company; and then followed it
                by opening of the unclaimed share suspense demat account titled ‘Bajaj Auto Ltd. – Unclaimed
                Suspense Account’ with the HDFC Bank in April 2012.

                After completing the necessary formalities, 44,375 shares held by 148 shareholders were transferred
                to this suspense account in April 2012. Voting rights on such shares remain frozen till the rightful
                owner claims these shares.

                The Company, acting as a trustee in respect of the unclaimed shares, follows the modalities
                for the operation of the said account in the manner set out in regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing
                Regulations, 2015.

                The summary of this account for FY2023 is as follows:

                                                                                               No. of              No. of
                Sr. No.    Particulars                                                      shareholders           shares



                    i.     Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding shares
                           lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on 1 April 2022                    20                 2,192
                   ii.     No. of shareholders who approached the Company for
                           transfer of shares from the Unclaimed Suspense Account
                           during the year 2022-23                                                         –                   –
                   iii.    No. of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from
                           the Unclaimed Suspense Account during the year 2022-23                          _                    _
                   iv.     No. of shares transferred to IEPF Authority during the year
                           2022-23                                                                         _                    _
                   v.      Aggregate no. of shareholders and the outstanding
                           shares lying in the Unclaimed Suspense Account as on
                           31 March 2023                                                                 20                 2,192




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited       65
Board of         Management      Chairman’s       Management Discussion   Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors        Team            Letter           and Analysis            Governance      Information            Report       Financials




            Certifications obtained from Practising Company
            Secretary
            The Company has inter-alia obtained following certifications by the Practising Company Secretary for
            share-related matters, as per details given below:

            Regulation                                                                    Frequency



            Regulation 40 (9) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
            2015 regarding Compliance of lodgment of transfers, sub-division,
            consolidation etc.                                                            Annual
            Reconciliation of Share Capital under Regulation 76 of SEBI (Depositories
            and Participants) Regulations 2018                                            Quarterly


            Nomination
            Individual shareholders holding shares singly or jointly in physical form can nominate a person in
            whose name the shares shall be transferable in the case of death of the registered shareholder(s) to
            avoid the lengthy process of Transmission of shares.

            Details of nomination shall be furnished through hard copy or electronic mode with e-signatures as
            follows:

            i.   Either,

                 l   Nomination through Form SH-13 as provided in the Rules 19(1) of Companies (Shares capital
                     and debenture) Rules, 2014 or

                 l   ‘Declaration to Opt-out’, as per Form ISR-3

            ii. In case of cancellation of nomination by the holder(s) through Form SH-14, ‘Declaration to Opt-out’
                 shall be provided by the shareholder(s)
            iii. Securities holder(s) can change their nominee through Form SH-14

            Nomination facility for shares held in electronic form is also available with depository participant.

            The said forms are available on the website of the Company at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/
            miscellaneous

            Issuance of Securities in dematerialised form in
            case of Investor Service Requests
            Pursuant to SEBI vide its circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated
            25 January 2022 has introduced common and simplified norms for processing investors’ service
            request by RTAs and norms for furnishing PAN, KYC details and Nomination and has mandated that the
            listed Companies shall henceforth issue the securities in dematerialised form only, while processing
            the following service requests:

            l    Issue of Duplicate securities certificate;
            l    Claim from Unclaimed Suspense account;
            l    Renewal/Exchange of securities certificate;
            l    Endorsement;
            l    Sub-division / Splitting of securities certificate;
            l    Consolidation of securities certificates/folios;
            l    Transmission;
            l    Transposition;




66     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis            Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited    67
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion     Corporate      General Shareholder      Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis              Governance     Information              Report       Financials




            For enabling the shareholders to demat their securities, the Registrar and Share transfer Agent shall
            issue a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical share certificates to physical shareholders for
            enabling them to dematerialise the securities.

            Further, SEBI vide its circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated 16 March 2023
            (superseded by circular dated 3 November 2021) has, inter alia, mandated that any service request
            shall be entertained only upon registration of PAN, KYC details, and nomination.

            All holders of physical securities of the Company are mandatorily required to furnish the following
            documents/details to the RTA i.e., KFin Technologies Ltd. (KFin):

            Form                                 Purpose



            Form-ISR-1                           For registering PAN, KYC details or changes/Updation
            Form-ISR-2                           Confirmation of Signature of securities holder by the Banker
            Form-ISR-3                           Opting out of Nomination by physical securities holders
            Form-SH-14                           Cancellation or Variation of Nomination


            SEBI has extended the timelines for updating the KYC details from 31 March 2023 to 1 October 2023.
            The folios wherein any one of the cited document/details are not updated on or after 1 October 2023
            shall be frozen by the RTA. Such members will be permitted to lodge grievance or avail service request
            from the RTA, only after furnishing the KYC details. Further, the payment of dividend in respect of such
            frozen folios will be made only through electronic mode with effect from 1 April 2024.

            The frozen folios will then be referred by RTA/Company to the administering authority under the
            Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988 and/or Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 after
            31 December 2025.

            In view of the above, the Company has sent communication to 669 shareholders who hold securities in
            physical form.

            The said forms are available on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/
            miscellaneous

            Members can access the KYC status of their folio by visiting https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/
            kycqry.aspx



            Simplification of Procedure of Transmission of
            Securities
            SEBI has notified vide its circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/65 dated 18 May 2022,
            has enhanced the monetary limits for simplified documentation for transmission of securities, allowed
            ‘Legal Heirship Certificate or equivalent certificate’ as one of the acceptable documents for
            transmission and provided clarification regarding acceptability of Will as one of the valid documents for
            transmission of securities. The said circular also specified the formats of various documents which are
            required to be furnished for the processing of transmission of securities.

            The circular also lays down operational guidelines for processing investor’s service request for the
            purpose of transmission of securities. The procedure provided in this circular is duly followed by our
            Registrar and share transfer agent while processing of transmission service request.




68     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion     Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis              Governance     Information           Report          Financials




                Simplification of Procedure for issuance of
                Duplicate Share Certificates
                SEBI vide its circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/70 dated 25 May 2022 has
                standardised the documents to be submitted for processing of service request for issue of duplicate
                share certificate and also laid down operational guidelines for the same.

                Further, the said circular also mandates listed company to take special contingency policy from
                insurance company towards the risk arising out of the requirements relating to issuance of duplicate
                securities in order to safeguard and protect the interest of the listed company. The Company is in
                compliance with the said circular.

                Investor grievances redressal through the SEBI
                Complaints Redress System (SCORES) platform
                SEBI vide its Master circular SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/P/CIR/2022 dated 7 November 2022, has mandated
                the investor to first take up the grievances with the company concerned for redressal and the same will
                be treated as ‘Direct Complaint’. A timeline of 30 days has been provided to the Company for resolution.
                Failing which, the complaint shall be registered on SCORES. Thereafter, SEBI shall take it up with the
                concerned company for resolution.

                The circular also provides for handling complaints by the stock exchanges as well as the standard
                operating procedure for actions to be taken against listed companies for failure to redress investor
                grievances. The Company takes adequate steps for expeditious redressal of investors’ complaints.

                Credit Rating
                The Company has neither issued any debt instruments nor undertaken any fixed deposit programme or
                any scheme or proposal involving mobilisation of funds, whether in India or abroad. However, it has
                obtained on 06 October 2022 ‘AAA/Stable’ rating for long-term and ‘A1+’ rating for short-term bank
                facilities of the Company from CRISIL. Further, in response to letter dated 19 August 2020 of the
                Company, CRISIL vide its letter dated 31 August 2020 has withdrawn ‘FAAA/Stable’ rating on the Fixed
                Deposits of the Company, since there are no public fixed deposits lying with the Company.

                Live webcast of AGM
                Pursuant to regulation 44(6) of the SEBI Regulations, 2015, top 100 listed entities shall, with effect from
                1 April 2019, provide one-way live webcast of the proceedings of their AGM. Accordingly, as in the
                previous year, the Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin to facilitate live webcast of the
                proceedings of the ensuing 16th AGM scheduled on 25 July 2023.

                Members who are entitled to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of AGM by logging on the
                e-voting website of KFin at https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ using the secure login credentials provided
                for e-voting.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited      69
Board of         Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors        Team           Letter         and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Voting through electronic means
            Pursuant to section 108 of the Act and the Rules made thereunder and provisions under the SEBI
            Listing Regulations, 2015, every listed company is required to provide its members, the facility to
            exercise their right to vote at general meetings by electronic means.

            The Company has entered into an arrangement with KFin as the authorised agency for this purpose, to
            facilitate such e-voting for its members.

            The shareholders will therefore be able to exercise their voting rights on the items put up in the Notice
            of AGM, through e-voting. Further, in accordance with the Companies (Management and Administration)
            Rules, 2014 and MCA circulars, the Company will also be making arrangements to provide for e-voting
            facility at the venue of the Annual General Meeting.

            Shareholders, who are attending the meeting and who have not already cast their votes by remote
            e-voting shall only be able to exercise their right of voting at the meeting.

            The cut-off date, as per the said Rules, shall be 18 July 2023 and the remote e-voting shall be open
            for a period of three days, from 22 July 2023 (9.00 a.m.) till 24 July 2023 (5.00 p.m.). The Board has
            appointed Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary as the scrutiniser for the
            e-voting process.

            The detailed procedure is given in the Notice of the 16th AGM and is also placed on the Company’s
            website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/annual-reports

            Outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/
            warrants
            The Company does not have any outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/warrants as on date
            of this report.

            Investor Support Centre
            Members may utilise the facility extended by the Registrar and share transfer agent for raising queries
            pertaining to dividend, KYC updation, interest/redemption, etc. by visiting https://ris.kfintech.com/
            clientservices/isc/

            E-Sign Facility
            Members may use the e-sign option given by KFin, for raising any service request by visiting
            https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/

            KPRISM: a mobile service application by KFIN
            Members may note that our Registrar and share transfer agent, KFin, has launched a mobile app
            KPRISM and a website https://kprism.kfintech.com/ for our investors. Members can download the
            mobile app and see their portfolios serviced by KFin; check their dividend status; request for annual
            reports; register change of address; register change in the bank account or update the bank mandate;
            and download the standard forms. This android mobile application can be downloaded from the Google
            Play Store.

            Plant locations
            Bajaj Auto has plants located at the following places:

            1.   Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411 035 (Maharashtra)
            2.   Bajaj Nagar, Waluj, Aurangabad 431 136 (Maharashtra)
            3.   MIDC, Plot No. A1, Mahalunge Village, Chakan 410 501 Dist. Pune (Maharashtra)
            4.   Plot No. 2, Sector-10, IIE Pantnagar, Udhamsinghnagar 263 531 (Uttarakhand)


70     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis            Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited    71
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion   Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis            Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Address for correspondence
            Investors and shareholders can correspond with the share transfer agent or the registered office of the
            Company at the following address:


            Share transfer agent
            KFin Technologies Ltd.
            (previously known as KFin Technologies Pvt. Ltd.)
            Unit: Bajaj Auto Ltd.
            Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 and 32,
            Financial District, Nanakramguda,
            Serilingampally Mandal,
            Hyderabad 500 032, Telangana.

            Contact persons
            Bhaskar Roy
            Mohd. Mohsinuddin
            Tel. No: (040) 6716 2222
            Fax No: (040) 2300 1153
            Toll free No: 1800 309 4001
            Whatsapp No. : (91) 910 009 4099
            Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
            Website: www.kfintech.com or https://ris.kfintech.com/


            Company
            Bajaj Auto Ltd.
            Mumbai-Pune Road,
            Akurdi, Pune 411 035.

            Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
            Dr. J Sridhar
            Tel. No: (020) 6610 7868
            Fax No: (020) 2740 7380
            Email: investors@bajajauto.co.in
            Website: www.bajajauto.com

            Shareholders may get in touch with the company secretary for further assistance.




72     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management      Chairman’s         Management Discussion          Corporate         General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team            Letter             and Analysis                   Governance        Information            Report            Financials




                        DIRECTORS’ REPORT

                The directors present their Sixteenth Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements
                for the year ended 31 March 2023.

                Financial Results
                The financial results of the Company are elaborated in the report on Management Discussion and
                Analysis. Given below are the financial highlights:

                Sales in numbers                                                                                FY2023             FY2022


                Two-wheelers                                                                                  3,437,966         3,836,856
                Commercial vehicles                                                                             485,018           471,577
                Total                                                                                         3,922,984         4,308,433
                Of which exports                                                                              1,821,240         2,506,626

                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                Particulars                                                                                     FY2023             FY2022


                Total revenue                                                                                 37,609.02         34,353.95
                Total expenses                                                                                30,200.38         28,163.90
                Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                        7,408.64          6,190.05
                Exceptional items                                                                                     -           (315.28)
                Profit before tax                                                                              7,408.64          6,505.33
                Tax expense                                                                                    1,781.04          1,486.46
                Profit for the year                                                                            5,627.60          5,018.87
                Earnings per share (J)                                                                            197.3             173.6



                Closing balances in reserve/other equity
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                Particulars                                                                                     FY2023             FY2022


                General reserve                                                                               6,389.60           6,389.60
                Retained earnings                                                                            17,821.40          19,340.40
                Cash flow hedging reserve                                                                             -              54.33
                Costs of hedging reserve                                                                              -               5.93
                FVTOCI reserve                                                                                  927.13             626.41
                Capital redemption reserve                                                                         6.41                  -
                Share based payments reserve                                                                      62.09              32.27
                Treasury shares                                                                                 (63.73)            (69.51)
                Total                                                                                        25,142.90          26,379.43
                Note: Detailed movement of above reserves can be seen in ‘Statement of Changes in Equity’.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited        73
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion     Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis              Governance      Information            Report       Financials




            Dividend Distribution Policy
            Under the Regulation 43A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
            Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘the Listing Regulations, 2015’), as amended, the Company has
            formulated a dividend distribution policy, which sets out the parameters and circumstances that will be
            taken into account by the Board in determining the distribution of dividend to its shareholders.

            As a green initiative, the amended policy has been uploaded on the Company’s website and can be
            accessed at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

            Dividend
            The directors recommend for consideration of shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting,
            payment of a dividend of H 140 per equity share of H 10 each (1400%) for the year ended 31 March 2023.

            For the year ended 31 March 2022 also, the dividend paid was H 140 per share of H 10 each (1400%).

            The dividend recommended is in accordance with the principles and criteria as set out in the dividend
            distribution policy.

            The dividend, if declared, will be taxable in the hands of the shareholders of the Company pursuant to
            Income Tax Act, 1961. For further details on taxability, please refer to Notice of annual general meeting.

            Share Capital and Buyback
            The paid-up equity share capital as on 31 March 2023 was H 282.96 crore, while as on 31 March 2022,
            it was H 289.37 crore. There was no public issue, rights issue, bonus issue or preferential issue etc.
            during the year. The Company has not issued shares with differential voting rights or sweat equity
            shares. The reduction in share capital was as a result of buyback of 6,409,662 equity shares made
            during the year utilising an aggregate amount of H 2,499.97 crore. As per approval given by the Board,
            at its meeting held on 27 June 2022, the buyback of the equity shares of the Company was done
            through open market route through stock exchanges at a price not exceeding H 4,600 per
            equity share. The buyback of equity shares commenced on 4 July 2022 and was completed on
            10 October 2022.

            The details of buyback are available on the website of the Company at https://www.bajajauto.com/
            investors/share-buyback

            Operations
            Detailed information on the Company’s operations is in the report on Management Discussion
            and Analysis.

            Capacity Expansion and New Projects
            The Company’s current installed capacity is 6.65 million units per annum.

            Detailed information on capacity expansion and new projects is covered in the report on Management
            Discussion and Analysis.




74     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management      Chairman’s    Management Discussion   Corporate       General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors     Team            Letter        and Analysis            Governance      Information             Report            Financials




                Research and Development (R&D) and
                Technology Absorption
                FY2023 was a challenging year with many regulatory changes for automotive products to be met under
                very tight timelines.

                A) Products
                Many new products were launched during the year under review. Pulsar has been consistently
                upgraded over the years to keep it in sync with changing times. Information on the new products is
                covered in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

                B) Processes
                R&D has been working on improving its operations in a number of areas as listed below:

                l    Manpower: R&D has expanded its team size in areas of design, analysis and validation to facilitate
                     the rapidly expanding aspirations of the Company.

                l    Facilities: R&D continued to enhance its design, computing, prototype manufacturing and validation
                     facilities. A number of new test facilities and prototyping facilities were added.

                l    Regulatory requirements: R&D had to calibrate and homologate many more variants to meet the
                     new BS6 OBD2 norms. The powertrain and vehicle configurations were adjusted to meet these new
                     norms rapidly.

                C) Technology
                As in the past, new and improved technology has been introduced during the year. Such information is
                covered in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

                D) Outgo
                The expenditure on R&D during FY2023 and in the previous year was:
                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                Particulars                                                                         FY2023            FY2022



                i.   Capital (including technical know-how)                                               35.15           42.06
                ii. Recurring                                                                        489.91              446.73
                Total                                                                                525.06              488.79
                iii. Total research and development expenditure as a percentage of sales              1.48%              1.52%



                Conservation of Energy
                Company continues its efforts to reduce and optimise the energy consumption at all its manufacturing
                facilities, including corporate office at Pune.

                Significant reduction in energy consumption has been achieved as shown hereunder (key initiatives):




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited         75
Board of        Management    Chairman’s      Management Discussion     Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team          Letter          and Analysis              Governance      Information            Report       Financials




            A) Electrical Energy
            		l       Energy efficiency improved by replacing IE1 Motors by IE4/IE5 Motors for Slat Conveyor for
                      Assembly Lines, Hot Water Spray Pump, Water Screen Pump.
            		l       Use of ED bath voltage optimisation based on surface area of individual SKUs.
            		    l   Use of VFD and water temperature sensors for optimised running of cooling tower.
            		l       Provision of energy efficient LED luminaries at various designated areas across all our
                      factories for energy conservation.
            		l       Improvement in power factor by addition of automatic power factor control system.
            		l       Continued use of motion sensors for offices and washroom lights.



            B)		 Water
                  l   Rainwater storage pond with capacity 90,000 cubic meter at Waluj plant, 57,000 cubic meter
                      at Pantnagar plant, and 83,500 cubic meter at Chakan plant are available for its use in
                      process.
                  l   Continuous reuse of treated water for processes like painting, cooling towers, etc. in addition
                      to gardening.
                  l   Frequent cleaning of water tank ventilation units.
                  l   Continued rainwater harvesting across all plants.
                  l   Use of one touch taps and sensor-based taps for hand wash at various areas across
                      all plants.
                  l   Reverse cascading of water at pre-treatment stages at paint shop.
                  l   Change of underground water lines with above ground line for easy identification of leakage,
                      if any.



            C)		 LPG/Propane
                  l   Provision of thermo-ceramic coating for oven inner wall in place of GI sheet for Paint Shops.
                  l   Installation of IR heaters on pre-treatment line to reduce hot water generator PNG
                      consumption.
                  l   Exhaust modulation based on oven heating load.
                  l   Automated process Startup and Shutdown System for PTED Line.
                  l   Continued use of magnetic resonance in oven PNG supply.
                  l   Continued use of low temperature chemical for pre-treatment process at paint shop.
                  l   Provision of IR heaters in painting booth flash off zones to reduce ASU burner PNG
                      consumption.
                  l   Use of energy efficient burners in canteen in all plants.



            D)		 Utilisation of Renewable Energy-Key Initiatives
                  l   Usage of renewable solar power generation: 5MW at Waluj, 1MW at Pantnagar, 3.2MW at
                      Akurdi and 2MW at Chakan; generating 155 lakh units per year renewable energy.
                  l   Utilisation of solar water heater in canteen of all plants.
                  l   Utilisation of hot water rooftop solar system for residential area for positive resource
                      utilisation.
                  l   Use of direct sunlight to illuminate shops by installation of ‘skylights’ across all plants.
            .




76     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management       Chairman’s         Management Discussion           Corporate          General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team             Letter             and Analysis                    Governance         Information            Report            Financials




                Impact of Measures Taken
                As a result of the initiatives taken for conservation of energy and natural resources, the Company has
                achieved an overall reduction in consumption as given in the table below:
                                                                                                         % Reduction w.r.t. previous year
                Description                                                                                     FY2023                FY2022



                Electricity consumption                                                                           # 1.19                  3.95
                Water consumption                                                                                # (4.53)                 3.93
                LPG/PNG consumption                                                                                 4.22                 17.84
                # Impact of addition of new facilities and lower production volume of Motorcycles at Waluj.



                Investment/Savings
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                Description                                                                                     FY2023                FY2022



                Investment for energy conservation activities                                                       1.55                  1.76
                Recurring savings achieved through above activities                                                 0.87                  0.91


                Awards and Accolades
                l   Upgradation of ‘Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems’ from OHSAS 18001 to
                    ISO 45001 by all plants of the Company.
                l   Pantnagar plant received ‘Platinum Award’ in ‘Green Practices Award Competition’ organised
                    by CII.
                l   Pantnagar plant received ‘Silver Award’ in ‘10th CII-National Excellence Practice Competition’
                    organised by CII.
                l   Pantnagar plant won ‘Northern Region EHS Competition’ organised by CII.
                l   Pantnagar plant is awarded ‘Best Practices in Energy Conservation’ in ‘Green Practices Award
                    Competition’ organised by CII.
                l   Chakan plant is awarded by CII for excellence in ‘Energy Management 2022-Energy Efficient Unit’.
                l   Waluj Rooftop Solar plant won ‘Excellence in Performance Award-Rooftop Solar’ Award in CII
                    Performance Excellence Awards 2022 for Solar and Wind plants.
                l   Waluj plant won ‘Energy Efficient Unit’ Award in ‘23rd CII-National Award for Energy
                    Excellence-2022’, organised by CII.

                International Business
                FY2023 has been a difficult year for exports. During the year under review, Bajaj Auto sold 1.82 million
                units versus 2.5 million vehicles in the previous year.

                More detailed information is given in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

                Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
                The Company continued to be a net foreign exchange earner during the year.

                Total foreign exchange earned by the Company during the year under review was H 14,461.47 crore, as
                compared to H 16,280.38 crore during the previous year.

                Total foreign exchange outflow during the year under review was H 1,138.68 crore, as against H 902.08
                crore during the previous year.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited         77
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Industrial Relations
            Bajaj Auto’s approach to its human resources is premised on the fundamental belief in fostering
            meritocracy in the organisation, which promotes diversity and offers equal opportunities to all
            employees. We believe in respecting human rights and actively developing people who will contribute to
            society by nurturing them and giving them opportunities to apply their skills.

            In the financial year 2022-23, the Company continued to deliver on its commitment to excellence.
            Passing successive milestones, business excellence has been further strengthened by well-defined
            goals and employee engagement strategies. The overall employee relations with staff and workmen
            across all the plants viz. Akurdi, Waluj, Chakan and Pantnagar continued to be cordial during the year.

            A core component of infusing joy at the workplace is to layer-in non-work activities that get people
            excited and encourage involvement. The Company has focused on ‘Yutori’ concept means ‘Joy at
            Workplace’. Below are three areas under Yutori, for fostering a more positive and fulfilling professional
            experience.


            1. Body-Physical Happiness
            Various initiatives were carried out to sustain and improve physical fitness. Some of them are
            workplace improvement in terms of ergonomics, work environment improvement, health improvement
            with medical check-up followed by consultation and physical fitness programs.


            2. Mind-Mental Happiness
            To improve mental happiness, we focused on education and training, stress-free operations, healthy
            communication and interpersonal relationships, rewards and recognition as well as personal and
            professional growth.


            3. Soul-Spiritual Wellbeing
            Various initiatives were taken for spiritual well-being like yoga and meditation sessions, women’s day
            celebration, people involvement and participation through kaizen competition, trust building through
            family care and trekking activities and collaborative culture development.

            With the active participation and involvement of all employees, we have been able to inculcate a TPM
            culture for excellence and continuous improvements across all plants. As a result, the plants have
            received numerous awards during the year from CII, IIIE, QCFI, Aditya Birla Group etc. Waluj plant has
            won two gold medals at the national level in the QCFI competition; both teams are qualified for
            international competition.

            The Company has been developing and retaining a gender-diverse talent pool of motivated employees.
            The Company has taken active steps for engaging women’s talent, contributing to improving women’s
            workforce participation in the economy.

            With continuous improvement activities through various committees, relations with workers and unions have
            improved and all wage settlements are taking place in time and without any trouble. The Company signed a
            long-term settlement with the union for a period of 3.5 years on 1 January 2023 at the Chakan plant.

            Prioritising employees’ health, various state-of-the-art sports and health facilities have been provided
            to the employees. Employees have bagged prizes in multiple sports events like weightlifting, swimming
            organised by Industrial Sports Association (ISA), Pune. Employees of Waluj plant won 8 gold medals,
            5 silver medals and 6 bronze medals at 42nd National Athletics Championship.

            With a view to serving the community, the employees were also involved in Company organised
            charitable events. These include donation drives, stalls for NGOs, blood donation camps,
            tree plantations etc.

            The Company will continue its efforts for building and sustaining a high sense of belongingness and
            high-performance culture at the workplace.
            .

78     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s   Management Discussion   Corporate    General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter       and Analysis            Governance   Information           Report       Financials




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited    79
Board of        Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter          and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures
            PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (PT BAI)
            Routine business operations of PT BAI, a 99.25% subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Ltd., remain discontinued.

            Indonesia is a large two-wheelers market and hence of interest for PT BAI.

            PT BAI would continue to study the evolving market and evaluate different possible opportunities.


            Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV, Netherlands (BAIH BV)
            BAIH BV is a 100% Netherlands based subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Ltd. Over the years from 2007 to 2013,
            through this subsidiary, Bajaj Auto Ltd. has invested a total of €198.1 million (H1,219 crore) and holds
            49.9% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG (PBAG). 50.1% in PBAG is held by Pierer Group.


            Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.
            Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Thailand with an issued
            and subscribed share capital of Thai Baht (THB) 45 million (H10 crore). An Engineering Design Centre
            (EDC) is set up under this subsidiary.

            Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. has all necessary approvals from local authorities. The EDC is operational and
            international designers are working from this new facility in Bangkok.


            Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.
            Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U. was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary in Barcelona, Spain with an
            issued and subscribed share capital of €600K (H 5 crore), the intent being to set up an Engineering
            Design Centre (EDC).

            The EDC has just started operations with the facility being set-up and is expected to be fully operational
            in the coming year.


            Chetak Technology Ltd. (CTL)
            Given the stakes and likely impact of EVs on its business, Bajaj Auto Ltd. wants to be ahead of this
            curve. For effectively engaging in this domain, CTL was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of
            the Company on 4 October 2021 with an issued and subscribed share capital of H 5 crore to develop
            new technologies and products, have dedicated manufacturing, sales, after-sales and offer customer
            centric experiences.

            During the year under review, additional capital of H 465 crore has been infused in CTL by way of rights
            issue. Plans have also been drawn to set up a new state-of-the-art manufacturing facility at Akurdi.


            Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd. (BACFL)
            Financing is key to every automobile business. To increase geographic coverage and expand financing
            options for the retail customers of Bajaj Auto Ltd. and Chetak Technology Ltd., a wholly owned captive
            financing company i.e. BACFL was formed on 6 December 2021 with an issued and subscribed share
            capital of H 5 crore. During the year under review, additional capital of H 25 crore has been infused in
            BACFL by way of rights issue.

            An application for registration of BACFL as NBFC has been made to RBI and the matter is
            under process.




80     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter         and Analysis             Governance      Information            Report           Financials




                Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda
                Brazil is an important market for motorcycles in Latin America. To address this, Bajaj Auto Ltd. has set
                up a wholly owned subsidiary on 31 March 2022 with a paid up equity share capital of BRL 30 million
                (H 48 crore). The subsidiary has just started operations after obtaining all necessary approvals. Full
                scale operations are likely to commence in the coming year.

                More detailed information is given in the report on Management Discussion and Analysis.

                The financial statements of the subsidiary companies are also available on the Company’s website on
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

                The Company does not have any associate company, nor has it entered into a joint venture with any
                other company.

                The Company’s policy for determination of material subsidiary, as adopted by the Board of Directors, in
                conformity with regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, can be accessed on the Company’s
                website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

                Anti-Corruption Initiatives
                The Company has established several policies to prevent corruption within Bajaj Auto Ltd. These are
                suitably integrated with the business operations. The Company also has adequate disclosure practices
                with regard to anti-corruption activities. Some of these practices are given below:


                Signing of the Anti-Corruption Initiative of
                World Economic Forum (WEF)
                In support of the initiative taken by WEF, the Company is a signatory to the ‘Commitment to
                Anti-Corruption’ and is supporting the ‘Partnering Against Corruption-Principles for Countering Bribery’
                derived from Transparency International’s Business Principles. This calls for a commitment to two
                fundamental actions, viz. a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and the development of a practical
                and effective implementation programme.


                Adoption of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Charters
                Your Company, being a member of CII, has adopted the following Codes/Charters:

                1.   CII Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action.
                2.   Model Code of Conduct for Ethical Business practices.
                3.   Charters of Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Collaborative Employee Relations.
                4.   Charters on Fair and Responsible Workplace Guidelines for Contract Labour.

                More details on the subject are given in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report hosted on
                the Company’s website on https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-
                performance

                Annual Return
                A copy of the annual return as provided under sub-section (3) of section 92 of the Companies Act, 2013
                (‘the Act’), in the prescribed form, which will be filed with Registrar of Companies/MCA, is hosted on the
                Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-
                operational-performance




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        81
Board of        Management      Chairman’s      Management Discussion    Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter          and Analysis             Governance      Information            Report       Financials




            Number of Meetings of the Board
            There were seven meetings of the Board held during the year. Detailed information is given in the
            Corporate Governance Report.

            Directors’ Responsibility Statement
            As required under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act, directors, to the best of their
            knowledge and belief, state that:

            l   in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable accounting standards have been followed
                along with proper explanation relating to material departures;

            l   they have selected such accounting policies and applied them consistently and made judgments
                and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of the state of
                affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss of the Company for
                the year ended 31 March 2023;

            l   they have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting records
                in accordance with the provisions of the Act, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for
                preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;

            l   they have overseen that the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis;

            l   they have laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and that, to the best
                of their knowledge, examination and analysis, such internal financial controls have been adequate
                and were operating effectively; and

            l   they have ensured through oversight of the existence of proper systems to ensure compliance with
                the provisions of all applicable laws and that, to the best of their knowledge, such systems were
                adequate and were operating effectively.

            Details regarding Frauds reported by Auditors
            under section 143(12)
            During the year under review, the auditors i.e. statutory auditors and secretarial auditors have not
            reported any matter under section 143(12) of the Act, and therefore, no details are required to be
            disclosed under section 134(3)(ca) of the Act.

            Declaration by independent directors
            The independent directors have submitted their declaration of independence, as required under section
            149(7) of the Act stating that they meet the criteria of independence as provided in section 149 (6) of the
            Act, read with regulation 16 and 25 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, as amended. The independent
            directors have also confirmed compliance with the provisions of section 150 of the Act read with rule 6
            of Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, relating to
            inclusion of their name in the databank of independent directors.

            The Board took on record the declaration and confirmation submitted by the independent directors
            regarding their meeting the prescribed criteria of independence, after undertaking due assessment of
            the veracity of the same as required under regulation 25 of the Listing Regulations, 2015.




82     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion     Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis              Governance     Information           Report         Financials




                Directors’ remuneration policy and criteria for
                matters under section 178
                The salient features and changes to the policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration, including
                the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes, independence of a director and other
                matters, as required under sub-section (3) of section 178 of the Act form a part of the Corporate
                Governance Report. The policy is on the Company’s website https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/
                policies-codes

                Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
                Information regarding loans, guarantees and investments covered under the provisions of section 186 of
                the Act, are detailed in the financial statements.

                Related Party Transactions
                All contracts/arrangement/transactions entered into by the Company during FY2023 with related parties
                were in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, 2015.
                Prior omnibus approval of the audit committee is obtained for all related party transactions, which are
                foreseen and of repetitive nature. Pursuant to the said omnibus approval, details of transactions entered
                into are also reviewed by the audit committee on a quarterly basis.

                All related party transactions entered into during FY2023 were on an arm’s length basis and in the
                ordinary course of business of the Company under the Act and not material under the Listing Regulations,
                2015. However, during the year, prior approval of shareholders was obtained for the material transactions
                with KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH (Associate of Bajaj Auto Ltd.’s 100% subsidiary, Bajaj Auto International
                Holdings BV, based in Netherlands) vide ordinary resolution through postal ballot on 21 November 2022
                as it was estimated that the transaction value would cross the applicable materiality thresholds under the
                amended Listing Regulations, 2015 (i.e. H 1,000 crore, or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover as per
                the last audited financial statements of the listed entity, whichever is lower).

                Details of transactions with related parties during FY2023 are provided in the notes to the financial
                statements. There were no transactions requiring disclosure under section 134(3)(h) of the Act.
                Hence, the prescribed Form AOC–2 does not form a part of this report.

                The policy on materiality of and dealing with related party transactions is available on the Company’s
                website at https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes

                Material Changes and Commitments
                There have been no material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of the Company,
                which have occurred between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.

                Risk Management Policy
                Pursuant to regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations, 2015, as amended, risk management policy/
                framework was adopted by the Board. This framework, inter alia, includes identification of internal and
                external risks faced by the Company, including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability,
                information, cyber security, strategic or any other risk as may be determined by the risk management
                committee and the measures for risk mitigation, reporting of critical risks within the Company and
                business continuity plan.

                Information on the development and implementation of a risk management policy for the Company is
                given in the Corporate Governance Report.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited     83
Board of        Management      Chairman’s     Management Discussion     Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter         and Analysis              Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
            The CSR policy including the composition of the CSR committee is hosted on the Company’s website
            https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-policy/BAL-Revised-CSR-Policy-29-
            April-2021.ashx

            Taking into account the commitments made by the Company for the ongoing CSR projects/programs
            which are in progress and considering the project mode of CSR activity where the projects can extend
            beyond the financial year, as also the amount transferred to ‘Unspent CSR Account’, there is no shortfall
            in the CSR expenditure mandated to be spent by the Company during the financial year ended
            31 March 2023.

            As per provisions of section 135(6) of the Act, any amount remaining unspent under section 135(5)
            pursuant to any ongoing project shall be transferred by the company within a period of thirty days from
            the end of the financial year to a special account to be opened by the company. Accordingly, such
            amount has been transferred by the Company to the specified account within the prescribed period.

            Detailed information on CSR policy, its salient features, CSR initiatives undertaken during the year,
            details pertaining to spent and unspent amount forms part of Annual Report on CSR activities, which is
            annexed to this Report.

            The Chief Financial Officer has certified that the funds disbursed have been utilised for the purpose and
            in the manner approved by the Board for FY2023.

            Formal Annual Evaluation of the Performance
            of the Board, its committees, chairman and
            individual directors
            Information on the manner in which a formal annual evaluation has been made by the Board of its own
            performance and that of its committees, chairman and individual directors is given in the Corporate
            Governance Report.

            Presentation of Financial Statements
            The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 have been disclosed as per
            Division Il of Schedule III to the Act.

            Indian Accounting Standards, 2015
            The annexed financial statements comply in all material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards
            (Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the Act, Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015
            and other relevant provisions of the Act.

            Consolidated Financial Statements
            The audited consolidated financial statements incorporating the duly audited financial statements of
            the subsidiaries, as prepared in compliance with the Act, applicable accounting standards and
            Listing Regulations, 2015 along with all relevant documents and the Auditors’ Report form a part
            of this Report.




84     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis             Governance     Information           Report            Financials




                Internal Audit
                At the beginning of each financial year, an audit plan is rolled out with approval by the Company’s audit
                committee. The plan is aimed at evaluation of the efficacy and adequacy of internal control systems and
                compliance thereof, robustness of internal processes, policies and accounting procedures and
                compliance with laws and regulations. Based on the reports of internal audit, process owners
                undertake corrective action in their respective areas. Significant audit observations and corrective
                actions are periodically presented to the audit committee of the Board.

                Statutory Disclosures
                The summary of the key financials of the Company’s subsidiaries (Form AOC-1) is included in this
                Annual Report. A copy of the audited financial statements for each of the subsidiary companies will be
                made available to members of the Company, seeking such information at any point of time.
                The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are placed on the Company’s website at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

                Details as required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Act, read with rule 5(1) of Companies
                (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended, containing,
                inter alia, ratio of remuneration of directors and KMP to median remuneration of employees and
                percentage increase in the median remuneration are annexed to this Report.

                Details of top ten employees in terms of the remuneration and employees in receipt of remuneration as
                required under the provisions of section 197(12) of the Act, read with rule 5(2) and 5(3) of Companies
                (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, as amended, which form part of
                the Directors’ Report, will be made available to any shareholder on request, as per provisions of section
                136(1) of the said Act.

                The provisions of section 148 of the Act relating to maintenance of cost records and cost audit are not
                applicable to the Company.

                Pursuant to the legislation ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
                and Redressal) Act, 2013’, the Company has a policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace.
                During the year under review, no complaint has been received from employees. There was no other
                case reported during the year under review under the said policy.

                There is no change in the nature of business of the Company during FY2023.

                The securities of the Company were not suspended from trading during the year on account of
                corporate actions or otherwise.

                A cash flow statement for 2022-23 is attached to the Balance Sheet.

                The Managing Director, as per the terms of his appointment, does not draw any commission or
                remuneration from subsidiary companies. Hence, no disclosure as required under section 197(14) of
                the Act has been made.

                Details as prescribed under section 134 of the Act and Rules made thereunder, applicable to the
                Company, have been specifically given in this Report, wherever applicable.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited         85
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion     Corporate       General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis              Governance      Information             Report       Financials




            Directors’ and Key Managerial Personnel-Changes
            I. Changes in Directorate
               Shekhar Bajaj, Non-executive non-independent director of the Company tendered his resignation
               with effect from close of business hours on 30 June 2022. The Board places on record its deep
               appreciation of valuable guidance provided by him during his very long tenure on the Board.


            II. Retirement by Rotation
               Independent directors hold office for a fixed term not exceeding five years from the date of their
               appointment and are not liable to retire by rotation.

               The Act mandates that at least two–thirds of the total number of directors (excluding independent
               directors) shall be liable to retire by rotation.

               Accordingly, Niraj Bajaj (DIN 00028261), Sanjiv Bajaj (DIN 00014615) and Madhur Bajaj
               (DIN 00014593), directors, being the longest in the office among the directors liable to retire by
               rotation, retire from the Board this year and, being eligible, have offered themselves for
               re–appointment.

               Brief details of Niraj Bajaj, Sanjiv Bajaj and Madhur Bajaj are given in the notice of annual
               general meeting.


            III. Appointment/Re-appointment of Directors
               Rakesh Sharma (DIN 08262670) was appointed as a Whole-time director of the Company for a
               period of five years from 1 January 2019 up to 31 December 2023. The Board, on recommendation
               of nomination and remuneration committee and after evaluating his performance and the valuable
               contribution made by him in the progress of the Company, has approved his re-appointment for
               another term of five years commencing from 1 January 2024, subject to approval of shareholders.

               Accordingly, resolution seeking his re-appointment for a further term of five years and brief details
               of Rakesh Sharma are given in the notice of annual general meeting.

            There was no other change in the directors and key managerial personnel during the year under review
            since the last report.

            Detailed information on the directors is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.



            Significant and Material Orders passed by the
            Regulators or Courts
            During the year under review, there were no significant and material orders passed by the regulators
            or courts or tribunals, which may impact the going concern status of the Company and its operations
            in future.

            Details of Internal Financial Controls with reference
            to the Financial Statements
            The Company has documented its internal financial controls considering the essential components of
            various critical processes, both physical and operational. This includes its design, implementation and
            maintenance, along with periodic internal review of operational effectiveness and sustenance and
            whether these are commensurate with the nature of its business and the size and complexity of its
            operations.




86     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis             Governance     Information           Report            Financials




                This ensures orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
                policies, safeguarding of its assets, prevention of errors, accuracy and completeness of the accounting
                records and the timely preparation of reliable financial information.

                Internal financial controls with reference to the financial statements were adequate and
                operating effectively.

                Corporate Governance
                Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, 2015, a separate chapter titled ‘Corporate Governance’ has been
                included in this Annual Report, along with the reports on Management Discussion and Analysis and
                General Shareholder Information.

                All Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of
                Conduct for FY2023. A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director (CEO) of the Company
                is contained in this Annual Report.

                The Managing Director (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer have certified to the Board with regard to the
                financial statements and other matters as required under regulation 17(8) of the Listing
                Regulations, 2015.

                Certificate from the auditors of the Company regarding compliance of conditions of corporate
                governance is annexed to this Report.

                Employee Stock Option Scheme
                The Company grants share-based benefits to eligible employees with a view to attracting and retaining
                talent, to encourage employees to align individual performance with the Company objectives and to
                promote their increased participation in the growth of the Company.

                During the year under review, there has been no change in the Bajaj Auto Employee Stock Option
                Scheme 2019 (BAL-ESOS 2019) of the Company. BAL-ESOS 2019 is in compliance with SEBI (Share
                Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, and this has been certified by the secretarial auditor
                of the Company.

                In line with regulation 14 of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014, a statement
                giving complete details, as at 31 March 2023, is available on the website of the Company at
                https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/financial-and-operational-performance

                Details of options vested, exercised and cancelled are provided in the notes to the standalone financial
                statements.

                Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
                Pursuant to amendment in the Listing Regulations, 2015, top 1,000 listed entities based on market
                capitalisation are required to submit a Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’)
                with effect from the FY2023.

                Accordingly, a detailed BRSR in the format prescribed by SEBI describing various initiatives, actions and
                process of the Company in conducting its business in line with its environmental, social and governance
                obligations has been hosted on Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.bajajauto.com/
                investors/financial-and-operational-performance

                A physical copy of the BRSR will be made available to any shareholder on request.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited       87
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis             Governance      Information            Report       Financials




            Secretarial Standards of ICSI
            The Company has complied with the requirements prescribed under the Secretarial Standards on
            Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS–1) and General Meetings (SS–2) read with the MCA Circulars
            granting exemptions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.

            Statutory Auditor
            Pursuant to the provisions of section 139 of the Act, the members at the annual general meeting of the
            Company held on 26 July 2022 appointed S R B C & CO LLP (Firm Registration No. 324982E/E300003)
            as statutory auditors of the Company from the conclusion of 15th annual general meeting till the
            conclusion of 20th annual general meeting, covering second term of five consecutive years.
            The statutory auditors have confirmed that they are not disqualified from continuing as auditors
            of the Company.

            The statutory audit report for the financial year 2022-23 does not contain any qualification, reservation
            or adverse remark or disclaimer made by statutory auditor.

            Secretarial Auditor
            Pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Act and Rules made thereunder, the Company has
            appointed, Shyamprasad D Limaye, Practising Company Secretary (Membership No.1587, CP No. 572)
            to undertake the secretarial audit of the Company. Secretarial audit report for the financial year
            2022-23 issued by him in the prescribed form MR-3 is annexed to this Report.

            In addition to the above, pursuant to regulation 24A(2) of the Listing Regulations, 2015, a report on
            secretarial compliance for the financial year ended 31 March 2023 has been issued by Shyamprasad
            D Limaye and the same will be submitted with the stock exchanges within the given timeframe. The
            report will be made available on the website of the Company.

            There are no observations, reservations or qualifications or adverse remark in any of the
            aforesaid reports.

            On behalf of the Board of Directors,




            Niraj Bajaj
            Chairman
            DIN: 00028261
            Pune: 25 April 2023




88     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion      Corporate       General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis               Governance      Information            Report          Financials




                Annual Report on CSR activities
                1. Brief outline of Company’s CSR Policy


                   Introduction
                   The vision and philosophy of late Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the Corporate
                   Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the group. He embodied the concept of trusteeship in
                   business and common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and transparent
                   functioning.

                   Bajaj Group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond
                   Balance Sheets or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business
                   and industry make to the lives of people.

                   Through its social investments, Bajaj Group addresses the needs of communities residing in the
                   vicinity of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
                   conservation, infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities.
                   For society, however, Bajaj is more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment
                   and the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.

                   It is this goodwill that has made us “The World’s Favourite Indian!”


                   Guiding principles
                   The Bajaj Group believes that social investments should:

                   l   Benefit generations: The Company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
                       generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society
                       over long periods.
                   l   Educate for self-reliance and growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
                       strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.
                   l   Promote health: The Company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education and
                       productivity.
                   l   Encourage for self-help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
                       to create excellence for self and for the team.
                   l   Be focused: The Company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it
                       has a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.
                   l   Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
                       lowest rung irrespective of their religion, caste, language or colour.
                   l   Sustain natural resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least
                       adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s blessings.


                   Brief contents of CSR Policy
                   Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Companies (Corporate Social
                   Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 have been amended substantially with effect from
                   22 January 2021. Accordingly, the CSR Policy was amended on 29 April 2021, with approvals
                   of the CSR Committee and Board of Directors. The policy, inter alia, covers the following:

                   l   Philosophy, Approach and Direction
                   l   Guiding Principles for selection, implementation and monitoring of activities
                   l   Guiding Principles for formulation of Annual Action Plan




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited       89
Board of        Management         Chairman’s    Management Discussion   Corporate            General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors       Team               Letter        and Analysis            Governance           Information             Report           Financials




            2. Composition of the CSR Committee



                                                      Designation/   Number of meetings    Number of meetings of
                                                      Nature of      of CSR Committee held CSR Committee attended
               Sr. No. Name of Director               Directorship   during the year       during the year



                    1      Rajiv Bajaj                Chairman                                                  3
                    2      Pradeep Shrivastava        Member                      3                             3
                    3      Dr. Naushad Forbes         Member                                                    3

            3. Web-link where the following are disclosed on the website of the Company:
               Composition of CSR committee https://www.bajajauto.com/about-us/bajaj-team

               CSR Policy https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-policy/BAL-Revised-CSR-
               Policy-29-April-2021.ashx

               CSR projects approved by the Board https://www.bajajauto.com/corporate/corporate-social-
               responsibility

            4. The executive summary along with web-link(s) of
               impact assessment of CSR projects carried out		
               in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable.                 As per table below

               Web-link of impact assessment reports: https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajaj-auto/Corporate-
               Social-Responsibility/Impact-Assessment-reports--FY-22-23.ashx
                                                                                Actual             Date of
                                         Implemen-                   Date of    Amount             Impact
               Sr.                       ting                        Completion Utilised           Assessment Highlights of the
               No. Project Title         Agency    Location          of Project (J in cr)          Report     assessment



                1       Expansion        Round       Multiple,       1.02.2021        3.57         27.09.2022       The project has
                        of Project       Table India Maharashtra                                                    benefitted 3,383
                        on School        Trust                                                                      underprivileged
                        Infrastructure                                                                              children from 13
                                                                                                                    schools resulting
                                                                                                                    in increased
                                                                                                                    school enrolments
                                                                                                                    and reduced
                                                                                                                    absenteeism of
                                                                                                                    students.
                2       Rahul Bajaj      Indian       Mumbai,        31.05.2021       12.50        27.09.2022       Total of 9 floors
                        Technology       Institute of Maharashtra                                                   are constructed on
                        Innovation       Technology                                                                 total built-up area
                        Centre (RBTIC)   Bombay                                                                     of 18,600 sq.mt.
                                                                                                                    with 2,250 sq.mt.
                                                                                                                    each floor, including
                                                                                                                    the basement and
                                                                                                                    ground floor.
                                                                                                                    The facility enables
                                                                                                                    cross utilisation of
                                                                                                                    talented, skilled,
                                                                                                                    and technical
                                                                                                                    resources.




90     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                            16th Annual Report 2022-23
Journey of successful entrepreneurs who                Medical services being given at the doorstep of
started Automach Robotics Pvt. Ltd.                    the villagers in far flung areas of Nainital
                                                       district, Uttarakhand in partnership with the
                                                       Corbett Foundation




Students learning basics of carpentry and              Surgical services being provided to the
team spirit in a vocational class in                   villagers in remote and unreached areas of
progression in a school                                Nainital district in partnership with Aarohi




First generation entrepreneur who runs a               A robotic competition in progression in a
business of mats manufacturing.                        Learning centre in Balewadi in partnership
                                                       with Yojak




A budding entrepreneur, self-working and providing employment opportunities under BAL-BYST
entrepreneurship development programme
Board of      Management      Chairman’s       Management Discussion   Corporate     General Shareholder     Directors’
Directors     Team            Letter           and Analysis            Governance    Information             Report           Financials




                                                                            Actual        Date of
                                     Implemen-                   Date of    Amount        Impact
             Sr.                     ting                        Completion Utilised      Assessment Highlights of the
             No. Project Title       Agency    Location          of Project (J in cr)     Report     assessment



              3   Holistic           Dilasa       Yavatmal,      30.06.2021   4.67        27.09.2022       The project has
                  development        Sanstha      Maharashtra                                              benefited 4,865
                  of community                                                                             individuals from
                  with NRM                                                                                 1,251 households.
                  interventions                                                                            After the holistic
                                                                                                           development of
                                                                                                           community, 98%
                                                                                                           of individuals have
                                                                                                           earned livelihood
                                                                                                           through local work
                                                                                                           opportunities
                                                                                                           resulting in reverse
                                                                                                           migration.
              4   Supporting       Room to        Aurangabad,    31.10.2021   3.13        19.03.2023       129,287 books were
                  literacy project Read           Pune,                                                    distributed in the
                  in 80 schools                   Maharashtra                                              96 Bajaj supported
                  in Maharashtra                  Udhamsingh                                               libraries (62 from
                  and Uttarakhand                 Nagar,                                                   Maharashtra and 34
                                                  Uttarakhand                                              from Uttarakhand)
                                                                                                           over a span of 3
                                                                                                           years benefitting
                                                                                                           10,700 students.
              5   Construction       Bhavani     Beed,           30.11.2021   1.39        19.03.2023       A hostel facility
                  of girls’ hostel   Vidyarthi   Maharashtra                                               is constructed to
                  building           Kalyani                                                               benefit 300 girls
                                     Pratishthan                                                           from disadvantaged
                                                                                                           backgrounds of
                                                                                                           Beed who don’t
                                                                                                           have access to
                                                                                                           education due to
                                                                                                           migration.
              6   Supporting         Annamrita Pune,             31.12.2021   1.00        19.03.2023       Daily nutritious
                  operations of      Foundation Maharashtra                                                mid-day meal was
                  ‘Smt. Rupa                                                                               provided to 25,000
                  Rahul Bajaj                                                                              students from 137
                  Annamrita                                                                                schools in PCMC
                  Centre’                                                                                  area over a span of
                                                                                                           2 years.
              7   Auro Agni-       Sri            Puducherry     31.12.2021   4.90        19.03.2023       Overall restoration
                  Global Centre of Aurobindo                                                               of Krishna Vilas, the
                  Excellence for   Society                                                                 heritage building
                  Integral Yoga                                                                            was done without
                                                                                                           disturbing its
                                                                                                           original structure
                                                                                                           and design, which
                                                                                                           is being utilised for
                                                                                                           conducting yoga
                                                                                                           sessions, Aikido
                                                                                                           classes, Tai chi
                                                                                                           classes, spiritual
                                                                                                           guidance program,
                                                                                                           community
                                                                                                           sessions workshops
                                                                                                           for children, etc.




92     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management       Chairman’s           Management Discussion                  Corporate          General Shareholder             Directors’
Directors     Team             Letter               and Analysis                           Governance         Information                     Report                     Financials




                5. (a) Average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)		                                             H 6,316.68 crore

                  (b) Two percent of average net profit of the company 		                                                    H 126.33 crore
                		 as per section 135(5)

                    (c) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes		                                              Nil		
                        or activities of the previous financial years

                    (d) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any		                                       Nil

                    (e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]		                                          H 126.33 crore

                		        Adjusted CSR Obligation*                    H 124.99 crore

                 Note: * Adjustment of excess spends of 2020-21 of H 1.34 crore
                			 not taken in previous year in books.


                6. (a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and
                		 other than Ongoing Project) 					                                                                         H 50.05 crore

                  (b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads			                                                            H 3.86 crore
                		 as per section 135(5)

                    (c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable		                                                   Nil

                 (d) Total amount spent for the financial year [(a)+(b)+(c)]		                                               H 53.91 crore
                		(‘spent’ as clarified by MCA FAQ dated 25 August 2021)

                    (e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:

                                                                                                     Amount Unspent (in H )
                                                               Total Amount transferred to Unspent       Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule
                                                                CSR Account as per section 135(6)              VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
                    Total Amount Spent for the
                    financial year (in H )                  Amount                Date of transfer       Name of the Fund       Amount                   Date of transfer



                    53.91 crore                                72.42 crore         20 April 2023                         Nil; Not Applicable


                    (f) Excess amount for set-off, if any 				                                                               Nil

                7. Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:



                                              Amount            Balance                           Amount transferred to any fund             Amount
                                              transferred       amount in                       specified under Schedule VII second       remaining
                                              to Unspent        Unspent                           proviso to section 135(5), if any             to be
                                              CSR Account       CSR Account      Amount                                                      spent in
                                              under             under            spent in the                                            succeeding
                    Sr.   Preceding           section           section          financial                                                  financial      Deficiency,
                    No.   financial year(s)   135(6) (in J )    135(6) (in J )   year (in J ) Amount (in J ) Date of transfer            years (in H )       if any



                    1     FY-1 2019-20               -                 -               -             -                   -                     -                 -
                    2     FY-2 2020-21               -                 -               -             -                   -                     -                 -
                    3     FY-3 2021-22        51.00 crore       37.78 crore      13.22 crore         -                   -            37.78 crore                -




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited                 93
Board of        Management     Chairman’s     Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter         and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            8. Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility
               amount spent in the financial year: No

            9. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as per
               sub-section (5) of section 135:

               (a) Taking into account the commitments made by the company for the ongoing CSR projects/
                   programs which are in progress and considering the project mode of CSR activity where the
                   projects can extend beyond the financial year, there is no shortfall in the CSR expenditure
                   mandated to be spent by the company during the financial year ended 31 March 2023.

               (b) Further, in light of the circular dated 25 August 2021 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs
                   (‘MCA’) on the Frequently Asked Questions on CSR, mere disbursal of funds for implementation
                   of a project does not amount to spending unless the implementing agency utilises the whole
                   amount.

               (c) As per provisions of section 135(6) of the Act, any amount remaining unspent under section
                   135(5) pursuant to any ongoing project shall be transferred by the company within a period of
                   30 days from the end of the financial year to a special account to be opened by the company.
                   Accordingly, such amount has been transferred by the Company to the specified account so
                   opened within the prescribed period. As per the said circular of MCA, this amounts to meeting
                   of the obligation and due compliance under section 135 of the said Act and hence there is no
                   shortfall of spends.




            Rajiv Bajaj
            Managing Director and CEO and
            Chairman of CSR Committee
            DIN: 00018262

            Pune: 25 April 2023




94     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management          Chairman’s              Management Discussion                  Corporate               General Shareholder                Directors’
Directors     Team                Letter                  and Analysis                           Governance              Information                        Report                 Financials




                Annexure to Directors' Report
                Remuneration Details under Rule 5 (1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
                Personnel) Rules, 2014 (as amended) for the year ended 31 March 2023

                                                                                                             Ratio of Remuneration
                                                                                                              of director to Median
                                                                                                                   Remuneration of                        % increase in the
                Sr. No.       Name of Director/KMP                                                                      employees                            financial year


                   (A)        Whole-time directors/Managerial Personnel
                              Rajiv Bajaj-Managing Director                                                                           564.33                                 10.11
                              Pradeep Shrivastava-Executive Director                                                                  120.01                                 13.48
                              Rakesh Sharma-Executive Director                                                                        123.04                                  4.89
                              Whole-time directors in aggregate                                                                                                               9.76
                   (B)        Non-executive directors1
                              Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                2.08                               40.00
                              Sanjiv Bajaj                                                                                                2.08                               40.00
                              Shekhar Bajaj2                                                                                              0.89                                0.00
                              D J Balaji Rao                                                                                              5.63                               18.75
                              Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                 3.26                               37.50
                              Dr. Naushad Forbes                                                                                          4.15                                7.69
                              Anami N. Roy                                                                                                4.15                               16.67
                              Pradip Shah                                                                                                 3.26                             175.00
                              Ms. Lila Poonawalla                                                                                         2.37                               60.00
                              Abhinav Bindra                                                                                              2.67                               80.00
                   (C)        Key Managerial Personnel
                              Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director                                                                                                                 10.11
                              Dinesh Thapar, CFO3                                                                                                                             0.00
                              Dr. J Sridhar, Company Secretary                                                                                                             -12.30
                   (D)        Remuneration of Median Employee (other than Whole-time directors)                                                                               5.38
                   (E)        Permanent employees as on 31 March 2023⁴ : 6,831


                1. (a) Remuneration payable to non-executive directors is based on the number of meetings of the Board and its committees attended by them as member during the year.
                   (b) Remuneration to directors for the above purposes does not include sitting fees paid to them for attending Board / committee meetings.
                2. Shekhar Bajaj resigned and ceased to be a director of the Company w.e.f. close of business hours on 30 June 2022. Figures regarding % increase in his case are
                   therefore not comparable/not applicable.
                3. Dinesh Thapar was appointed as CFO of the Company w.e.f. 15 March 2022. Figures regarding % increase in his case are therefore not comparable/not applicable.
                4. The term ‘Permanent Employees’ does not include trainees, probationers and contract employees.

                Notes on Disclosures under Rule 5
                1. In FY2023, the remuneration of median employee other than Whole-time directors increased by
                   5.38% over the previous year.
                2. Increase in the remuneration of the WTDs/Managerial Personnel, which in the aggregate was 9.76%
                   during the year under review, was given, keeping in view the trends of remuneration in industry.
                3. The remuneration paid as above was as per the remuneration policy of the Company.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited              95
Board of        Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter        and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            Secretarial Audit Report (Form No. MR-3)
            [Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies
            (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]

            For the financial year ended 31 March 2023.


            To,
            The Members,
            Bajaj Auto Ltd.
            (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076)
            Mumbai-Pune Road,
            Akurdi, Pune-411035.

            I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and
            the adherence to good corporate practices by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter called as ‘The Company’).
            The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating
            the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.

            Based on my verification of the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
            maintained by the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and
            authorised representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, and subject to letter annexed
            herewith, I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the
            financial year ended on 31 March 2023, complied with the applicable statutory provisions listed
            hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in
            place subject to the reporting made hereinafter:

            I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
            maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on 31 March 2023, according to the
            provisions of:

            1) The Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and the rules made thereunder;

            2) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;

            3) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;

            4) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to
               the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial
               Borrowings;

            5) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of
               India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) to the extent applicable:-

               (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
                   Regulations, 2011;

               (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;

               (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements)
                   Regulations, 2018;

               (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014
                   and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat
                   Equity) Regulations, 2021;




96     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion   Corporate      General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis            Governance     Information           Report           Financials




                    (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations,
                        2008 and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible
                        Securities) Regulations, 2021;

                    (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)
                        Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;

                    (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 and
                        The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;

                    (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 1998 and
                        The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; and

                    (i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
                        Regulations, 2015.

                6) Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 to the extent of product certification before production and from time to
                   time primarily in respect of vehicles manufactured by the Company.

                I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:

                    (i) Secretarial Standards pursuant to section 118(10) of the Act, issued by the Institute of Company
                        Secretaries of India.

                    (ii) Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with BSE Ltd. and National Stock Exchange of
                         India Ltd. as per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.

                During the period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, rules,
                regulations, guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above, wherever applicable.

                I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of
                executive directors, non-executive directors and independent directors including a woman independent
                director. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period
                under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.

                Adequate notices were given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings including Committees
                thereof, along with agenda and detailed notes on agenda at least seven days in advance and a system
                exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the
                meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting by the directors. The decisions at the meeting
                were carried unanimously.

                I further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the
                size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules,
                regulations and guidelines.

                I further report that during the audit period, the Company has bought back 6,409,662 equity shares of
                H 10/- each in compliance of provisions of the Act and Securities And Exchange Board of India
                (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018.

                I further report that during the audit period, there was no other event/action having major bearing on
                affairs of the Company.


                															Shyamprasad D Limaye
                Pune: 25 April 2023												FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
                UDIN: F001587E000183648




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited       97
Board of        Management      Chairman’s     Management Discussion     Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team            Letter         and Analysis              Governance     Information            Report       Financials




            ANNEXURE
            To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
            Mumbai-Pune Road,
            Akurdi, Pune-411035.


            My Secretarial Audit Report for Financial Year ended on 31 March 2023 of even date is to be read along
            with this letter.

            1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the Management of the Company.
               My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.

            2. I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable
               assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was
               done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the
               process and practices, I followed, provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.

            3. I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts
               of the Company.

            4. Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws,
               rules and regulations and happening of event etc.

            5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations,
               standards is the responsibility of Management. My examination was limited to the verification of
               procedures on test basis.

            6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of
               the efficacy or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.


            Pune: 25 April 2023

            Shyamprasad D Limaye
            FCS No. 1587
            C P No. 572




98     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management     Chairman’s    Management Discussion   Corporate       General Shareholder   Directors’
Directors     Team           Letter        and Analysis            Governance      Information           Report          Financials




                Independent Auditors’ Report on compliance with
                the conditions of Corporate Governance
                [As per provisions of Chapter IV of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
                Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended]

                To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

                1. The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter the ‘Company’), contains
                   details as specified in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub – regulation (2) of
                   regulation 46 and para C, D, and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
                   (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (‘the Listing
                   Regulations’) (‘Applicable criteria’) for the year ended 31 March 2023 as required by the Company
                   for annual submission to the Stock exchange.

                Management’s responsibility

                2. The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of
                   the Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and
                   documents. This responsibility also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of
                   internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Governance Report.

                3. The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the
                   Company complies with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing
                   Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.

                Auditors’ responsibility

                4. Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to provide a
                   reasonable assurance in the form of an opinion whether, the Company has complied with the
                   conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations referred to in
                   paragraph 1 above.

                5. We conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the
                   Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes and the Guidance Note on
                   Certification of Corporate Governance, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
                   (‘ICAI’). The Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes requires that we comply
                   with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by ICAI.

                6. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control
                   (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial
                   Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.

                7. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks
                   associated in compliance of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria. Summary
                   of procedures performed include:

                    i.   Read and understood the information prepared by the Company and included in its Corporate
                         Governance Report;

                    ii. Obtained and verified that the composition of the Board of Directors with respect to executive
                        and non-executive directors has been met throughout the reporting period;

                    iii. Obtained and read the Register of Directors as on 31 March 2023 and verified that atleast one
                         independent woman director was on the Board of Directors throughout the year;




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited       99
Board of        Management     Chairman’s      Management Discussion    Corporate      General Shareholder    Directors’
Directors       Team           Letter          and Analysis             Governance     Information            Report       Financials




               iv. Obtained and read the minutes of the following committee meetings/other meetings held from
                   1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023:

            		 (a) Board of Directors;
            		(b) Audit Committee;
            		 (c) Annual General Meeting (AGM) / Extra Ordinary General Meeting (EGM);
            		 (d) Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
            		 (e) Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee;
            		 (f) Risk Management Committee;
            		 (g) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee; and
            		 (h) Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee.
            .
              v. Obtained necessary declarations from the directors of the Company.

               vi. Obtained and read the policy adopted by the Company for related party transactions.

               vii. Obtained the schedule of related party transactions during the year and balances at the
                    year-end. Obtained and read the minutes of the audit committee meeting wherein such related
                    party transactions have been pre-approved prior by the audit committee.

               viii. Performed necessary inquiries with the management and also obtained necessary specific
                     representations from management.

            8. The above-mentioned procedures include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the
               Corporate Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope of work under this report did
               not involve us performing audit tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the fairness or
               accuracy of any of the financial information or the financial statements of the Company taken
               as a whole.

            Opinion

            9. Based on the procedures performed by us, as referred in paragraph 7 above, and according to the
               information and explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with
               the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing Regulations, as applicable for the
               year ended 31 March 2023, referred to in paragraph 4 above.

            Other matters and Restriction on Use

            10. This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or
                effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

            11. This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of
                enabling it to comply with its obligations under the Listing Regulations with reference to compliance
                with the relevant regulations of Corporate Governance and should not be used by any other person
                or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care
                or for any other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may come
                without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this report for events and
                circumstances occurring after the date of this report.

            For S R B C & CO LLP
            Chartered Accountants
            ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003


            per Arvind Sethi
            Partner
            Membership Number: 089802
            UDIN: 23089802BGYPVY5236

            Pune: 25 April 2023


100    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
Board of      Management       Chairman’s         Management Discussion          Corporate          General Shareholder      Directors’
Directors     Team             Letter             and Analysis                   Governance         Information              Report        Financials




                Certificate by Practising Company Secretary
                [Pursuant to Schedule V read with Regulation 34(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015 (as amended)]

                In the matter of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (CIN: L65993PN2007PLC130076) having its registered Office at
                Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune-411035.

                On the basis of examination of the books, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
                maintained by the Company and declarations made by the directors and explanations given
                by the Company.

                I certify that the following persons are Directors of the Company (during 01/04/2022 to 31/03/2023)
                and none of them have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of
                companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.


                Sr. No. Name of Director                                                      DIN            Designation


                    1      Nirajkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                                  00028261           Non-Executive Chairman
                    2      Madhurkumar Ramkrishnaji Bajaj                                 00014593           Non-Executive Vice Chairman
                    3      Rajivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                                    00018262           Managing Director
                    4      Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj                                   00014615           Non-Executive Director
                    5      Shekhar Bajaj                                                  00089358           Non-Executive Director
                    6      Balaji Rao Jagannathrao Doveton                                00025254           Independent Director
                    7      Gita Piramal                                                   01080602           Independent Director
                    8      Pradeep Shrivastava                                            07464437           Executive Director
                    9      Naushad Darius Forbes                                          00630825           Independent Director
                   10      Anami Narayan Prema Roy                                        01361110           Independent Director
                   11      Rakesh Sharma                                                  08262670           Executive Director
                   12      Pradip Panalal Shah                                            00066242           Independent Director
                   13      Lila Firoz Poonawalla                                          00074392           Independent Director
                   14      Abhinav Bindra                                                 00929250           Independent Director
                Notes:
                1. Gita Piramal resigned on 30 April 2022 and ceased to be a director of the Company w.e.f. 30 April 2022.
                2. Shekhar Bajaj resigned on 30 June 2022 and ceased to be a director of the Company w.e.f. 30 June 2022.


                .									                                                                                            Shyamprasad D Limaye
                Pune: 25 April 2023												 FCS No. 1587 CP No. 572
                UDIN: F001587E000183703




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited     101
STANDALONE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
                  Standalone                                                     Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes      Financials




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements
To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’), which comprise
the Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the statement of Other Comprehensive
Income, the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended and notes to the
Standalone financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial
statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (the ‘Act’) in the manner so required and give a
true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company
as at 31 March 2023, its profit including other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the year ended
on that date.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the
‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2023. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled the
responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements’ section of our report,
including in relation to these matters.
Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the standalone financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to
address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying standalone financial statements.

Key audit matters                                  How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Accounting for buy-back (as described in Note 13 of the standalone financial statements)
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on        Our audit procedures included the following:
27 June 2022, approved a proposal to buy-back        • Obtained and read the minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors in which the
equity shares of the Company for an aggregate            proposed buy-back was approved.
amount not exceeding H 2,500 crore having a face
value of H 10 each from the existing shareholders
                                                     •   Compared the buy-back amount as approved by the Board of Directors with the
                                                         permissible limit computed in accordance with relevant provisions of section 68
(except promoters, promoter group and persons in
                                                         of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board
control of the Company) from open market through
                                                         of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 as amended (‘SEBI Buyback
stock market mechanism (i.e. through National
                                                         Regulations’).
Stock Exchange of India Ltd. and BSE Ltd.) at a
maximum buy-back price not exceeding H 4,600         •   Obtained and read the resolutions passed by the Buy-back Committee for approving
per equity share. This transaction had a significant     the extinguishment of shares which were bought back.
effect on the standalone financial statements and • Read the Certificate of Extinguishment of Equity Shares, which has been prepared by
hence was considered as a Key Audit Matter.              the Company pursuant to Regulation 21 read with Regulation 11(iii) of the SEBI
                                                         Buyback Regulations.
                                                     • Read the letters received by the Company from National Securities Depository Ltd.
                                                         (NSDL) for extinguishment of equity shares of the Company bought back in
                                                         dematerialized form under the buy-back offer.
                                                     • Obtained the transaction statement from the Company’s Registrar and compared the
                                                         number of equity shares extinguished by NSDL as per aforesaid letters with the
                                                         equity shares debited in the depository account.
                                                     • Assessed the Management’s evaluation of compliance with section 67, 68 and 69 of
                                                         the Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 17 of the Companies (share capital and
                                                         debentures) Amendment Rules, 2016.




104       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone                                                        Changes                                      Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials     Audit Report    Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows      Notes      Financials




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
Key audit matters                                    How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Accounting for buy-back (as described in Note 13 of the standalone financial statements)
                                                     •   Assessed the Management’s evaluation of compliance with the provisions of
                                                         section 115QA of Income-tax Act, 1961.
                                                     •   Assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial statements.
                                                     •   Obtained necessary representation from the Management.
Accounting for income from government grants (as described in Note 7, 8 and 22 of the standalone financial statements)
The Company recognises various incentives             Our audit procedures included the following:
(‘Grant income’) receivable from the Government      •    Read the relevant schemes, notifications and policies issued by respective
as per the relevant schemes, notifications and            Government authorities.
policies issued from time to time.
                                                      • Obtained and tested the computation of grant income prepared by Management.
Recognition of Grant income and assessment of its
                                                      • Evaluated the Management’s assessment regarding compliance with the relevant
recoverability is subject to significant judgments
                                                          conditions as specified in the relevant notifications and policies including compliance
arising out of conditions of various schemes and
                                                          with relevant accounting standards.
interpretation of various notifications of respective
Government authorities. Accordingly, this matter      •   Assessed the disclosures in the standalone financial statements for compliance with
has been determined to be a Key Audit Matter.             relevant standards.
                                                      • Obtained Management representation in regard to the recognition and disclosures in
                                                          respect of the Grant income.

Other information
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Chairman’s letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Corporate
Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not include the standalone financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and in doing so,
consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge obtained
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management for the standalone financial statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of
these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including other
comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates
that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that
were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
Management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone
financial statements.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited       105
                 Standalone                                                      Changes                                Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity    Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or
   error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate
   to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for
   one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
   internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
   the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the
   Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating
   effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
   disclosures made by Management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence
   obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s
   ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in
   our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
   opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events
   or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures,
   and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
   fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the standalone financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2023 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
1. As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2020 (the ‘Order’), issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
   sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the Annexure 1 a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4
   of the Order.
2. As required by section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
   (a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
       necessary for the purposes of our audit;
   (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
       examination of those books;
   (c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow
       Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account;
   (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
       section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
   (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2023 taken on record by the
       Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms
       of section 164 (2) of the Act;
   (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements and the
       operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in Annexure 2 to this report;
   (g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2023 has been paid / provided by the Company to
       its directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;




106     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                 16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone                                                     Changes                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes      Financials




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Standalone Financial Statements (Contd.)
   (h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit
       and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
       given to us:
		     i.   The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements
            – Refer Note 35 to the standalone financial statements;
		     ii. The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material
           foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 33 to the standalone
           financial statements;
		     iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
            Fund by the Company
		     iv. a) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief and read with note 45(g) to the
              standalone financial statements,, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or
              share premium or any other sources or kind of funds by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including
              foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the
              Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner
              whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on
              behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
			         b) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief and read with note 45(h) to the
               standalone financial statements, no funds have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including
               foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the
               Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner
               whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like
               on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
			         c) Based on such audit procedures performed that were considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
               nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) and (b)
               contain any material misstatement.
		     v. The final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors for the year ended 31 March 2022 and paid during the current year
          by the Company is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
			         As stated in note 34(b) to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company have proposed
            final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2023, which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual
            General Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration
            of dividend.
		     vi. As proviso to rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable for the Company only w.e.f. 1 April 2023,
           reporting under this clause is not applicable.



For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 23089802BGYPVU5960
Pune: 25 April 2023




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited      107
                    Standalone                                                           Changes                                        Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials     Audit Report     Balance Sheet     Profit and Loss    in Equity         Cash Flows       Notes       Financials




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report of
even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and records examined
by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:

i.     (a)   A.    The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of
                   property, plant and equipment.

		           B.    The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.

       (b)   Property, plant and equipment have been physically verified by Management in accordance with a planned program of
             verifying them once in three years which, in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the
             nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.

       (c)   The title deeds of all immovable properties included in property, plant and equipment; and investment property (other
             than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) are
             held in the name of the Company.

       (d)   The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the year ended 31 March
             2023. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(i)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (e)   Based on the information and explanations given to us, there are no proceedings initiated or pending against the Company
             for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made
             thereunder. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(i)(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

ii.    (a)   The Management has conducted physical verification of inventory including inventory lying with third parties at
             reasonable intervals during the year. In our opinion the frequency of verification by Management is reasonable and the
             coverage and the procedure of such verification by the Management is appropriate. Discrepancies of 10% or more in
             aggregate for each class of inventory were not noticed during such physical verification.

       (b)   Based on the information and explanations given by Management, the Company has not been sanctioned any working
             capital limits on the basis of security of current assets from banks or financial institutions during any point of time during
             the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

iii.   (a)   During the year the Company has provided loans to a subsidiary and employees the details of which are as follows:
             Particulars                                                                                                             Loans (J in Crore)


             Aggregate amount granted during the year
                  Subsidiary                                                                                                                     100.00
                  Employees                                                                                                                         4.35
             Balance outstanding as at Balance Sheet date
                  Subsidiary                                                                                                                           –
                  Employees                                                                                                                         5.90

		           Other than the above, the Company has not provided any loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee or
             provided security to any other entity.

       (b)   During the year the investments made and the terms and conditions of the grant of all loans and advances in the nature
             of loans to its employees are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest. Since, the Company has not provided loans,
             advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee or provided security to any other entity, other than to its employees and
             its subsidiary, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(b), 3(iii)(c), 3(iii)(d), 3(iii)(e) and 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable
             in respect of any entity other than its employees and loan to a subsidiary.

       (c)   The Company has granted loans and advances in the nature of loans during the year to its employees and its subsidiary
             where the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and the repayment/receipts
             are regular.




108      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone                                                                 Changes                                          Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials      Audit Report     Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity           Cash Flows           Notes   Financials




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
       (d)   In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to employees and its subsidiary during the year, there
             are no amounts overdue for more than ninety days. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(d) in respect of
             employees and its subsidiary is not applicable.

       (e)   In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to employees and its subsidiary, there were no amounts
             which have fallen due during the year, that have been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle the overdues
             of existing loans given to the same employees and its subsidiary. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(e)
             in respect of employees and its subsidiary is not applicable.

       (f)   In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to employees and its subsidiary, there were no amounts
             granted which were either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment. Accordingly, the
             requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

iv.    The Company has not advanced any loans, guarantees or security to any entity covered by the provisions of section 185 and
       section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iv) of the Order is not applicable to
       the Company in respect of section 185 and section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, pertaining to these transactions. In respect
       of investments made, the Company has complied with the provisions of section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013.

v.     The Company has neither accepted any deposits from the public nor accepted any amounts which are deemed to be deposits
       within the meaning of sections 73 to 76 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable.
       Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

vi.    The Central Government has not specified the maintenance of cost records under section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013
       for the products of the Company.

vii.   (a)   The Company is regular in depositing with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues including goods and services
             tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income tax, sales tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value
             added tax, cess and other statutory dues wherever applicable. According to the information and explanations given to us
             and based on audit procedures performed by us, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of these statutory dues were
             outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.

       (b)   The dues of goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income tax, sales tax, service tax, duty
             of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and other statutory dues wherever applicable, and which have not been
             deposited on account of any dispute, are as follows:
                                                                  Amount                                                       Forum where the dispute is
             Name of the statute        Nature of dues        (J In Crore) Period to which the amount relates                  pending



                                        Excise Duty                 327.48 Various years from 2010-11 to 2016-17 Supreme Court
                                        Excise Duty                    1.43 Various years from 1985-86 to 2001-02 High Court
             The Central Excise
             Act, 1944                  Excise Duty                    1.37 Various years from 1983-84 to 2014-15 Custom Excise and Service Tax
                                                                                                                  Appellate Tribunal
                                        Excise Duty                    0.42 Various years from 1991-92 to 2017-18 Commissioner Appeals
                                        Sales Tax                      0.99 Various years from 1996-97 to 2001-02 High Court
             Central Sales Tax
             Act, 1956 and Sales        Sales Tax                    83.65 Various years from 2001-02 to 2015-16 Appellate Tribunal
             Tax Act of various         Sales Tax                      0.25 Financial year 2009-10                             Appellate Authority
             States
                                        Sales Tax                    50.68 Various years from 1999-00 to 2016-17 Appellate Authority
                                        Income Tax                  502.01 Various years from 2007-08 to 2011-12 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
             The Income Tax
             Act, 1961                  Income Tax                  132.65 Various years from 2013-14 to 2020-21 Commissioner of Income-Tax
                                                                                                                 (Appeals)
                                        Customs Duty                   3.85 Financial year 1984-85 and 1985-86                 High Court
             The Customs Act,
             1962                       Customs Duty                   5.50 Various years from 1977-78 to 2013-14 Assistant Commissioner of
                                                                                                                  Customs
                                        Octroi Duty                    8.44 Various years from 1988-89 to 2004-05 High Court
             Octroi                                                         and from 2012-13 to 2016-17
                                        Octroi Duty                    4.23 Various years from 1981-82 to 1988-89 District Court
             Note: The amounts disclosed above are net of the payments made to the respective authorities where the dispute is pending.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited     109
                      Standalone                                                       Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes      Financials




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
viii. The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of account, in the tax
      assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(viii)
      of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

ix. (a)/(c)
		          The Company has not defaulted in the repayment of loans (sales-tax deferral) to any lender during the year. Further, the
            Company did not have any term loans or interest due to any lender during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report
            on clause 3(ix)(a) and 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (b)      Based on the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not been declared willful defaulter by any bank
                or financial institution or government or any government authority.

       (d)      The Company has not raised any funds on short-term basis during the year. Hence, the requirement to report on clause
                3(ix)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.,

       (e)      On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds from
                any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries or associates. The Company did not have
                any joint ventures during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable
                to the Company.

       (f)      The Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries or associate
                companies. The Company did not have any joint venture during the year. Hence, the requirement to report on clause (ix)(f)
                of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

x.     (a)      The Company has not raised any money during the year by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt
                instruments). Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (b)      The Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or convertible debentures
                (fully, partially or optionally convertible) during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(b) of
                the Order is not applicable to the Company.

xi.    (a)      No fraud by the Company or no material fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year. Accordingly,
                the requirement to report on clause 3(xi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

       (b)      During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been filed by secretarial
                auditor or by us in Form ADT–4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the
                Central Government.

       (c)      We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while
                determining the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures.

xii.   The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Therefore, the requirements to report
       on clause 3(xii)(a), 3(xii)(b) and 3(xii)(c) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.

xiii. Transactions with the related parties are in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013 where applicable
      and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, as required by the applicable accounting standards.

xiv. (a)        The Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.

       (b)      The internal audit reports of the Company issued till the date of the audit report, for the period under audit have been
                considered by us.

xv.    The Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons connected with its directors and
       accordingly the requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.




110          Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone                                                     Changes                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes      Financials




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
xvi. (a)/(b)/(c)
		         The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable to the Company.
           Further, the Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities and is not a Core
           Investment Company as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, the requirement to report
           on clause 3(xvi)(a), 3 (xvi)(b) and 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

      (d)   In our opinion, and according to the information and explanation given to us, in the Group (in accordance with Core
            Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) there are 17 companies forming part of the Group of the
            Company which are CICs (These are unregistered CICs as per Para 8.1/9.1 of Notification No. RBI/2020-21/24 dated 13
            August 2020 of the Reserve Bank of India).

xvii. The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current year and immediately preceding financial year respectively.
      Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

xviii. There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly requirement to report on Clause 3(xviii)
       of the Order is not applicable to the Company.

xix. On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 42 to the standalone financial statements, ageing and expected dates of
     realisation of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the financial statements,
     our knowledge of the Board of Directors and Management plans and based on our examination of the evidence supporting the
     assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date
     of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of Balance Sheet as and when
     they fall due within a period of one year from the Balance Sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to
     the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report
     and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the Balance
     Sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.

xx.   (a)   In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a fund
            specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 of section 135
            of the Companies Act, 2013. This matter has been disclosed in note 28 to the standalone financial statements.

      (b)   All amounts that are unspent under section (5) of section 135 of Companies Act, pursuant to any ongoing project, has
            been transferred to special account in compliance of with provisions of sub section (6) of section 135 of the said Act.
            This matter has been disclosed in note 28 to the standalone financial statements.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 23089802BGYPVU5960
Pune: 25 April 2023




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited       111
                 Standalone                                                      Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report of
even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the internal financial controls under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of section 143 of the companies act, 2013 (the ‘Act’)

We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’)
as of 31 March 2023 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.

Management’s responsibility for internal financial controls

The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.

Auditors’ responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls
Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate
internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements was established and maintained and if such
controls operated effectively in all material respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
reference to these standalone financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with
reference to standalone financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to
these standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements.

Meaning of internal financial controls with reference to these standalone financial statements

A company’s internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to
standalone financial statements includes those policies and procedures that

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
    the assets of the company;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
    only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.




112     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone                                                      Changes                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes      Financials




Annexure 2 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur
and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to standalone financial
statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial
statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were operating effectively as at
31 March 2023, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 23089802BGYPVU5960
Pune: 25 April 2023




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited       113
                    Standalone                                                    Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials   Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows      Notes          Financials




Balance Sheet
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                   Note No.            2023                2022



ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment                                                                    2              2,635.29           1,757.57
Capital work-in-progress                                                                         2                 81.92               76.82
Investment property                                                                              3                50.01                51.13
Intangible assets                                                                                4                30.70                25.32
Intangible assets under development                                                              4                      –                   –
Investments in subsidiaries                                                                     5A              1,786.43           1,248.43
Financial assets
   Investments                                                                                  5B             16,717.53          17,601.20
   Trade receivables                                                                            10                      –                   –
   Loans                                                                                         6                    2.28              4.57
   Other financial assets                                                                        7                33.58                61.39
Income tax assets (net)                                                                                          812.42              749.24
Other non-current assets                                                                         8                107.12             351.80
                                                                                                              22,257.28          21,927.47


Current assets
Inventories                                                                                      9              1,397.90           1,230.51
Financial assets
   Investments                                                                                  5B              4,419.37            4,969.13
   Trade receivables                                                                            10              1,776.12           1,516.38
   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                    11                219.42             563.97
   Other bank balances                                                                          12                66.33                24.37
   Loans                                                                                         6                    3.62              4.17
   Other financial assets                                                                        7               470.81              596.26
Other current assets                                                                             8               516.84            1,089.68
                                                                                                               8,870.41           9,994.47
                                                                                                              31,127.69          31,921.94




114      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone                                                       Changes                                      Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet     Profit and Loss   in Equity    Cash Flows       Notes          Financials




Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                       Note No.              2023               2022



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                13                 282.96             289.37
Other equity                                                                                        14              25,142.90          26,379.43
                                                                                                                   25,425.86          26,668.80


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                              15                 124.23             122.77
Provisions                                                                                          16                     0.87              1.30
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                      17                 345.15             403.33
Government grant                                                                                                        33.35              36.00
Other non-current liabilities                                                                       18                     0.19              0.30
                                                                                                                       503.79             563.70


Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
         Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                          19                 269.41             150.64
         Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises     19               3,804.47           3,482.54
    Other financial liabilities                                                                     20                 446.92             397.00
Other current liabilities                                                                           21                 484.90             478.71
Provisions                                                                                          16                 165.95             153.75
Government grant                                                                                                           2.65              2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                           23.74               24.15
                                                                                                                     5,198.04          4,689.44
                                                                                                                   31,127.69          31,921.94
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                   1


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.                                 On behalf of the Board of Directors

As per our report of even date

For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                Niraj Bajaj
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                       Chairman
                                                                                                                  (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                     Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                          Dinesh Thapar                          Managing Director
                                                                       Chief Financial Officer                    (DIN: 00018262)

per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                            Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                 Dr. J Sridhar                      Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                     Company Secretary                         (DIN: 01361110)




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited          115
                    Standalone                                                     Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials   Audit Report    Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows      Notes         Financials




Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                    Note No.             2023              2022



Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                           35,359.15         32,135.98
Other operating revenue                                                                                          1,068.45          1,008.73
Revenue from operations                                                                          22             36,427.60         33,144.71
Other income                                                                                     23               1,181.42         1,209.24
Total income                                                                                                   37,609.02         34,353.95


Expenses
Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                                                   24,009.01         22,169.88
Purchase of traded goods                                                                                         2,143.85          1,971.98
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods                      24                (98.11)            187.96
Employee benefits expense                                                                        25              1,444.90          1,358.80
Finance costs                                                                                    26                 39.48               8.66
Depreciation and amortisation expense                                                            27                282.44             269.17
Other expenses                                                                                   28              2,406.63          2,210.76
Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                                     (27.82)           (13.31)
Total expenses                                                                                                 30,200.38         28,163.90


Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                                          7,408.64         6,190.05


Exceptional items                                                                                29                      –          (315.28)


Profit before tax                                                                                                7,408.64         6,505.33


Tax expense
    Current tax                                                                                                  1,854.82           1,667.11
    Deferred tax                                                                                                   (73.78)          (180.65)
Total tax expense                                                                                30              1,781.04          1,486.46


Profit for the year                                                                                              5,627.60         5,018.87




116     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone                                                         Changes                                     Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials      Audit Report     Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows       Notes          Financials




Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                       Note No.              2023               2022



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                                    (2.11)             17.94
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                    0.53             (4.52)
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                                 337.14             605.59
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                (36.42)             (67.61)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                                         (80.53)            (40.87)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                 20.27               10.29


Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax)                                                                   238.88             520.82


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                              5,866.48          5,539.69


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                                         31                   197.3              173.6
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                                   1




The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.                                 On behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP                                                                                                 Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                    (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                     Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                           Dinesh Thapar                         Managing Director
                                                                        Chief Financial Officer                   (DIN: 00018262)
per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                            Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                  Dr. J Sridhar                     Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                      Company Secretary                        (DIN: 01361110)




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited          117
                              Standalone                                                                                                  Changes                                                      Consolidated
Non-Financials                Financials                Audit Report              Balance Sheet                     Profit and Loss       in Equity            Cash Flows             Notes            Financials




Statement Of Changes In Equity
A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                                  Note No.                       2023                   2022



At the beginning of the year                                                                                                                                                              289.37                  289.37
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors                                                                                                                                         –                      –
Restated balance at the beginning of the current reporting period                                                                                                                         289.37                  289.37
Changes in equity share capital during the year                                                                                                                                             (6.41)                        –
At the end of the year                                                                                                                                              13                    282.96                  289.37

B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                  Reserves and surplus                                       Other reserves
                                                                                                                                  Cash flow   Costs of                   Capital     Share based                      Total
                                                                                       Note          General          Retained     hedging    hedging      FVTOCI    redemption        payments    Treasury           other
Particulars                                                                            No.           reserve          earnings      reserve   reserve     reserve       reserve          reserve     shares          equity


Balance as at 31 March 2021                                                              14         5,887.60 18,861.25              148.90     (58.06)     88.43               –           16.91       (32.14) 24,912.89


Profit for the year                                                                                             –     5,018.87           –            –        –               –              –              –     5,018.87
Recognition of share based payments to employees                                                                –            –           –            –        –               –           15.36             –        15.36
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                         –        13.42      (94.57)     63.99      537.98              –              –              –       520.82
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2022                                                     –     5,032.29      (94.57)     63.99      537.98              –           15.36             –     5,555.05


Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained earnings to General reserve                                                    502.00           (502.00)          –            –        –               –              –              –            –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                                                              –            –           –            –        –                              –         (37.37)      (37.37)
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2021                                                                 –    (4,051.14)          –            –        –               –              –              –    (4,051.14)


Balance as at 31 March 2022                                                              14         6,389.60 19,340.40               54.33       5.93     626.41               –           32.27       (69.51) 26,379.43


Profit for the year                                                                                             –     5,627.60           –            –        –               –              –              –     5,627.60
Recognition of share based payments to employees                                                                –            –           –            –        –               –           29.82             –        29.82
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                         –        (1.58)     (54.33)     (5.93)     300.72              –              –              –       238.88
Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2023                                                     –     5,626.02      (54.33)     (5.93)     300.72              –           29.82             –     5,896.30


Transactions with owners in their
capacity as owners
Recognition of capital redemption reserve                                                                       –        (6.41)          –            –        –             6.41             –              –            –
Treasury shares held by ESOP Trust                                                                              –            –           –            –        –               –              –           5.78         5.78
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2022                                                                 –    (4,051.14)          –            –        –               –              –              –    (4,051.14)
Share buyback and tax thereon                                                                                   –    (3,087.47)          –            –        –               –              –              –    (3,087.47)


Balance as at 31 March 2023                                                              14         6,389.60 17,821.40                   –            –   927.13             6.41          62.09       (63.73) 25,142.90
Note: There are no changes in accounting policies or prior period errors during the current or previous year.

Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company                        1

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.                                                                                                 On behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                                                                                   Niraj Bajaj
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                                                                                          Chairman
                                                                                                                                                                                     (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                                                                                        Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                                                                           Dinesh Thapar                                            Managing Director
                                                                                                                        Chief Financial Officer                                      (DIN: 00018262)
per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                                                                                           Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                                                                   Dr. J Sridhar                                   Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                                                                       Company Secretary                                      (DIN: 01361110)


118           Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                                               16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone                                                       Changes                                             Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials     Audit Report    Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity            Cash Flows        Notes        Financials




Statement Of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                             For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                           2023                               2022



I.   Operating activities
        Profit before tax                                                                                       7,408.64                         6,505.33
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
             i) Depreciation and amortisation expense                                          282.44                                 269.17
             ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
                 discarded and scrapped                                                             14.11                              8.88
         iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                              4.79                             (4.44)
         iv) Share based payment to employees                                                       29.82                             15.36
             v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                                   11.39                             (3.55)
         vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                               2.50                              2.39
         vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                                0.24                              3.64
        viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                1.46                               1.31
         ix) Interest expense                                                                      38.02                                7.35
                                                                                                                  384.77                           300.11
        Less:
        i)     Investment income included in above:
                   Interest income on fixed income securities                                  306.99                             275.05
                   Interest income on fixed deposits                                                61.05                             36.42
                   Interest income on exchange traded funds                                    344.56                             204.68
                   Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                          39.55                         388.93
                   Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured
                   at fair value through profit or loss                                            174.53                         224.47
                   Dividend income on other strategic investments                                   47.25                             45.50
                   Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition
                   of fixed income securities                                                      (2.00)                          (17.67)
                                                                                                   971.93                        1,157.38
        ii) Government grants                                                                        2.65                              2.65
        iii) Exceptional item - PSI Scheme                                                             –                           315.28
        iv) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                       111.56                             21.59
                                                                                                               (1,086.14)                       (1,496.90)
                                                                                                                6,707.27                         5,308.54
        Change in assets and liabilities
             i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                             (167.39)                           263.38
             ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                                     (267.03)                           1,202.52
         iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                                    655.53                                  77.19
         iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                                 502.24                            (942.20)
                                                                                                                  723.35                           600.89
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                        (0.32)                           (0.32)
        Net cash flow from operating activities before income-tax                                               7,430.30                         5,909.11
               Income-tax paid                                                                                 (1,918.41)                       (1,701.54)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                                      5,511.89                         4,207.57


                                                                     Carried forward                            5,511.89                         4,207.57




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        119
                    Standalone                                                      Changes                                             Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity             Cash Flows      Notes         Financials




Statement Of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                        2023                             2022



                                                                  Brought forward                            5,511.89                         4,207.57
II. Investing activities
         i) Investment in subsidiary                                                       (538.00)                             (15.17)
         ii) Sale of investments                                                         10,792.76                           11,526.59
        iii) Purchase of investments                                                     (9,339.40)                        (11,083.79)
        iv) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                               873.85                            (209.44)
         v) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                                           5.78                          (37.37)
        vi) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                          (41.96)                           (2.14)
        vii) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)                (943.31)                           (550.67)
       viii) Sale proceeds of property plant and equipment                                      136.90                            33.07
        ix) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                        (35.73)                                     –
                                                                                            910.89                            (338.92)
         x) Investment income
              Interest income on fixed income securities                                    306.99                             275.05
              Interest income on fixed deposits                                                  61.05                            36.42
              Dividend income on other strategic investments                                     47.25                            45.50
                                                                                                415.29                         356.97


        (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                                                7.63                        (114.00)
                                                                                                422.92                          242.97


        Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                                   1,333.81                           (95.95)


                                                                  Carried forward                            6,845.70                          4,111.62




120     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                           16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone                                                       Changes                                            Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials     Audit Report    Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity           Cash Flows        Notes        Financials




Statement Of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                      2023                              2022



                                                                 Brought forward                           6,845.70                          4,111.62
III. Financing activities
          i) Interest expense                                                                (38.02)                             (7.35)
         ii) Equity share buy-back (incl. tax thereon)                                  (3,093.88)                                    –
        iii) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                                  (4,046.96)                         (4,048.98)


        Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                (7,178.86)                       (4,056.33)


        Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                            (333.16)                            55.29


        Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                               563.97                           505.13
        Add/(Less): Effects of exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents                             (11.39)                             3.55
        Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                                       219.42                           563.97


As per our report of even date                                                                              On behalf of the Board of Directors



For S R B C & CO LLP
                                                                                                                           Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants
                                                                                                                           Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003
                                                                                                                        (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                           Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                        Dinesh Thapar                                  Managing Director
                                                                     Chief Financial Officer                            (DIN: 00018262)

per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                               Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                  Dr. J Sridhar                        Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                      Company Secretary                           (DIN: 01361110)




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                             Bajaj Auto Limited        121
                  Standalone                                                      Changes                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023
Corporate information

Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged in the
business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles, electric two-
wheelers etc. and parts thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets. The registered
office of the Company is located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

The standalone financial statements were approved for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the
Company on 25 April 2023.

1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company

Basis of preparation

These standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as
amended from time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
(including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value or amortised book value.

The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as 12
months for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.

Significant accounting policies

This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

1   Use of estimates, judgments and assumptions

    Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of these financial statements and disclosures made therein are based upon
    Management’s evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements, which may differ
    from the actual results at a subsequent date. The following are items which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to
    estimates and assumptions turning out to be different than those originally assessed. Detailed information about each of these
    estimates is included in the relevant notes together with information about basis of calculation for each affected line item in the
    financial statements:

    a)   Estimation of fair value of derivative instruments
    b)   Estimation of variable considerations in revenue
    c)   Provision for warranties
    d)   Provision for employee benefits
    e)   Provision for tax expenses
    f)   Residual value and useful life of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets
    g)   Valuation of investments
    h)   Inventory provisioning
    i)   Provision for bad and doubtful debts

2   Revenue from contracts with customers

Revenue is recognised when control of goods (vehicles or parts) and services have been transferred to the customer; at an amount
that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The timing of when
the company transfers the goods or provide services may differ from the timing of the customer’s payment. Amounts disclosed as
revenue are net of goods and service tax (GST).




122      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone                                                     Changes                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   The Company has generally concluded that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements, except for the agency services below
   (in respect of freight), because it typically controls the goods or services before transferring them to the customer.

   The disclosures of significant accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to revenue from contracts with
   customers are provided below:

   Sale of Goods (vehicles or parts)

   The Company has determined that our customers from the sale of goods are generally dealers and distributors. Transfer
   of control, and therefore revenue recognition, generally corresponds to the date when the goods are made available to the
   customer, or when the goods are released to the carrier responsible for transporting them to the customer in the following
   manner:

   • Domestic sales are recognised at the time of dispatch from the point of sale;

   • Export sales are recognised on the date when shipped on board as per terms of sale and are initially recorded at the relevant
       exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction

   Generally, Company does not offer any specific credit period to its customer. All invoices are due immediately after billing.

   The nature of contracts of the Company are such that no material part performance obligations would remain unfulfilled at the
   end of any accounting period.

   Variable consideration

   If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount (like volume rebates/incentives, cash discounts etc.), the Company
   estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer.
   The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue
   reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable
   consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate of variable consideration for expected future volume rebates/incentives,
   cash discounts etc. are made on the most likely amount method.

   Consideration payable to the customer

   Consideration payable to a customer includes cash amounts that the Company pays, or expects to pay, to the customer.
   The consideration payable to a customer is accounted for as a reduction of the revenue.

   Warranty obligations

   The Company provides warranties for general repairs of defects as per terms of the contract with ultimate customers.
   These warranties are considered as assurance type warranties and are accounted for under Ind AS 37- Provisions,
   Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

   Financing component

   Generally, the Company receives short term advances from its customers. The Company applies the practical expedient for
   short-term advances received from customers. That is, the promised amount of consideration is not adjusted for the effects of a
   significant financing component if the period between the transfer of the promised good or service and the payment is one year
   or less.

   Principal versus agent consideration in respect of freight

   The Company, on behalf of its customers (dealers and distributors), dispatches goods to agreed locations for an agreed fee.
   The Company has determined that the performance obligation of the Company is to arrange for those goods and services
   (Company is an agent) to the dealers and hence the amount charged to the customer offset by freight charges paid to the
   freight service providers is shown as revenue and disclosed as other operating income or other operating expenses,
   depending upon the results of the offsetting.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited     123
                   Standalone                                                     Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
    Contract balances

    Trade receivables

    A receivable represents the Company’s right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the passage of
    time is required before payment of the consideration is due). Refer to accounting policy no. 6 Financial instruments – initial
    measurement and subsequent measurement.

    Contract liabilities

    A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods to a customer for which the Company has received consideration (or an
    amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company transfers goods or
    services to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made, or the payment is due (whichever is
    earlier). Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract.

    Refund liabilities

    A refund liability is the obligation to refund some or all the consideration received (or receivable) from the customer and is
    measured at the amount the Company ultimately expects it will have to return to the customer. The Company updates its
    estimates of refund liabilities (and the corresponding change in the transaction price) at the end of each reporting period.

3   Property, plant and equipment and depreciation/amortisation

    A. Property, plant and equipment

		     i)   Capital work in progress, property, plant and equipment except land are carried at historical cost of acquisition,
            construction or manufacturing, as the case may be, less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Freehold land is
            carried at cost of acquisition.

		     ii) Cost represents all expenses directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition capable of operating
           in the manner intended. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment, if the recognition
           criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company
           depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost
           is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
           All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.

		     iii) Costs incurred to manufacture/construct property, plant and equipment are reduced from the total expense under the
            head ‘Expenses, included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

		     iv) Land and buildings acquired/constructed, not intended to be used in the operations of the Company and held for earning
           long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company, are categorised as
           investment property.

		     v) An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or
          when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the
          asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in
          the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is derecognised.

		     vi) The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at regular
           intervals and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.

    B. Depreciation and amortisation methods, estimated useful lives and residual value

       (a) Leasehold land

			         Premium on leasehold land is amortised over the period of lease.

       (b) Other tangible assets

            i.   a. Depreciation is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method to allocate the cost, net of residual value over
                    the estimated useful lives of the assets.


124     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone                                                     Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows     Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
       		        b. Where a significant component (in terms of cost) of an asset has an estimated economic useful life shorter than
                    that of its corresponding asset, the component is depreciated over its shorter life.

       		        c. The Company, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and Management estimate, depreciates
                    certain items of property, plant and equipment over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life
                    prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The Management believes that these estimated useful lives
                    are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used.

			         ii. Assets which are depreciated over useful life/residual value different than those indicated by Schedule II are as under:
                 Asset class                         As per Schedule II                       Useful life

                 Aircraft                            20 years                                 10 years
                 PDC Dies                            8 years                                  3 years


			         iii. Depreciation on additions is being provided on pro rata basis from the month of such additions.

			         iv. Depreciation on assets sold, discarded or demolished during the year is being provided up to the month in which such
                assets are sold, discarded or demolished.

4   Intangible assets

    A. Technical know-how acquired

		     Technical know-how acquired is stated at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any.
       Acquired technical know-how is amortised equally over a period of estimated useful life

    B. Technical know-how developed by the Company

		     i)   Expenditure incurred by the Company on development of know-how researched, is recognised as an intangible asset,
            if and only if the future economic benefits attributable to the use of such know-how are probable to flow to the Company
            and the costs/expenditure can be measured reliably.

		     ii) Costs incurred to develop an intangible asset are reduced from total expenses and disclosed under the head ‘Expenses,
           included in above items, capitalised’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

		     iii) The cost of technical know-how developed is amortised equally over its estimated useful life i.e. generally three years
            from the date of commencement of commercial production.

    C. Research and development costs

		     Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditure on an individual project are recognised as an intangible
       asset when the Company can demonstrate:

		• The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale

		• Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset

		• How the asset will generate future economic benefits

		• The availability of resources to complete the asset

		• The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development

		     Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated
       amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete, and the
       asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation expense is recognised in the
       Statement of Profit and Loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset.

		     During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                      Bajaj Auto Limited    125
                 Standalone                                                       Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
5   Investment property

    Property which is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the Company,
    is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
    Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits
    associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Repairs and
    maintenance costs are expensed when incurred.

    Depreciation on investment property is provided on a pro rata basis on straight line method over the estimated useful lives.
    Useful life of assets, as assessed by the Management, corresponds to those prescribed by Schedule II- Part ‘C’ of the
    Companies Act, 2013.

6   Investments and financial assets

    A. Investment in subsidiaries

		     Interest in subsidiaries are recognised at cost. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the said investments.

		     The Company assesses at the end of each reporting period, if there are any indications that the said investments may be
       impaired. If so, the Company estimates the recoverable value/amount of the investment and provides for impairment, if any
       i.e. the deficit in the recoverable value over cost.

    B. Other investments and financial assets

       (i) Classification

			        The company classifies its financial assets at initial recognition in the following measurement categories:

			• those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income, or through profit or
     loss), and

			• those to be measured at amortised cost.

			        The classification is done depending upon the Company’s business model for managing the financial assets and the
           contractual terms of the cash flows.

			        For assets classified as ‘measured at fair value’, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or other
           comprehensive income, as elected. For assets classified as ‘measured at amortised cost’, this will depend on the business
           model and contractual terms of the cash flows.

       (ii) Measurement

           Initial Measurement

			        Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other
           comprehensive income (FVTOCI), or fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The classification of financial assets at initial
           recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics and the Company’s business model for
           managing them.

			        At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value including, in the case of ‘a financial asset
           not at FVTPL’, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of
           financial assets carried at ‘FVTPL’ are expensed in the Statement of Profit and Loss, when incurred.

			        Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Company has applied the
           practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under Ind AS 115. Refer accounting policy no.2
           ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.

			        For a financial asset to be classified and subsequently measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI (excluding equity
           instruments which are measured at FVTOCI), it needs to give rise to cash flows that are ‘solely payments of principal and
           interest (SPPI)’ on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at




126     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone                                                      Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes      Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
           an instrument level. Financial assets with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified and measured at FVTPL, irrespective
           of the business model.

			        The Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets to generate
           cash flows. The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling
           the financial assets, or both.

           Subsequent Measurement

			        Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on the Company’s business model for managing the financial asset
           and the cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. There are three measurement categories into which the Company
           classifies its financial instruments:

           Subsequently measured at amortised cost:

			        A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met:

			        a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and

			        b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
              interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.

			        Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent SPPI are
           measured at amortised cost e.g. debentures, bonds, fixed maturity plans, trade receivables etc.

			        This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently
           measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into
           account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. Interest income
           from trade receivables is included in other operating income in the Statement of Profit and Loss; whilst interest
           income from the remaining financial assets is included in other income in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The
           losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. A gain or loss on a financial asset
           that is subsequently measured at amortised cost is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is
           derecognised or impaired.

			        In case of fixed maturity plans (FMP), they are measured at amortised cost, if the Company intends to hold the FMPs
           to maturity. Further, the Company applies amortised cost for those FMPs where the Company is able to demonstrate
           that the underlying instruments in the portfolio would fulfill the SPPI test and the churn in the underlying portfolio is
           negligible. These conditions are assessed at each Balance Sheet date. If these conditions are not fulfilled, then FMPs
           are valued at FVTPL.

			        The Company intends to hold its investment in open ended target maturity funds (i.e. exchange traded funds/ETF) till
           maturity. It may be noted that these funds have a pre-determined maturity date. These funds follow a passive buy and
           hold strategy; in which the existing underlying investment bonds are expected to be held till maturity unless sold for
           meeting redemptions or rebalancing requirements as stated in the scheme document. In our view, such strategy mitigates
           intermittent price volatility in open ended target maturity funds’ underlying investments; and investors who remain
           invested until maturity are expected to mitigate the market/volatility risk to a large extent. These funds can invest only
           in plain vanilla INR bonds with fixed coupon and maturity; and cannot invest in floating rate bonds. Based on this, the
           Company believes that the investments in open ended target maturity funds meet the requirements of SPPI test as per the
           requirements of Ind AS 109.

           Subsequently measured at FVTOCI:

			        All equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading,
           if any, are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company may make an irrevocable election to
           present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value. The Company makes such election on an
           instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.

			        Equity instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair
           value. Fair value movements are recognised in the other comprehensive income (OCI). If the Company decides to classify
           an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding dividends, are recognised




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited       127
                 Standalone                                                      Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
           in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to Statement of Profit and Loss, even on sale of investment.
           However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.

			        Subsequently measured at FVTPL:

			        Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost and FVTOCI are measured at fair value through profit
           or loss e.g. investments in mutual funds. A gain or loss on a financial asset that is subsequently measured at fair value
           through profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the Statement of Profit and Loss within other
           gains/(losses) in the period in which it arises.

			        In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortised cost or FVTOCI
           criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or
           recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has designated investments in mutual
           funds (other than FMP) as at FVTPL. Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with
           all changes recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

       iii. Impairment of financial assets

			        The Company assesses on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its financial assets
           carried at amortised cost for e.g., debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balances; and lease receivables.
           The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and if so,
           assess the need to provide for the same in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

			        The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables and all
           lease receivables.

			        The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather,
           it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) at each reporting date, right
           from its initial recognition.

			        For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines whether there
           has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly,
           12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL
           is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant
           increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on
           12-month ECL.

			        Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial
           instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within
           12 months after the reporting date.

			        ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract
           and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR.
           When estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider all contractual terms of the financial instrument
           over the expected life of the financial instrument.

			        ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognised during the period is recognised as income/expense in the
           Statement of Profit and Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the Statement of Profit and
           Loss. The Balance Sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below:

			• Financial assets measured at amortised cost, revenue receivables and lease receivables: ECL is presented as an
     allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the Balance Sheet. The allowance reduces
     the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance
     from the gross carrying amount.

			        For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments based on shared
           credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in
           credit risk to be identified on a timely basis.

			        For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, the Company applies the low credit risk simplification. At every reporting
           date, the Company evaluates whether the debt instrument is considered to have low credit risk using all reasonable and


128     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone                                                       Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes      Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
           supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. In making that evaluation, the Company reassesses
           the internal credit rating of the debt instrument.

			        However, in certain cases, the Company may also consider a financial asset to be in default when internal or external
           information indicates that the Company is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking
           into account any credit enhancements held by the Company. A financial asset is written off when there is no reasonable
           expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows.

       iv. Derecognition of financial assets

			        A financial asset is derecognised only when Company has transferred the rights to receive cash flows from the financial
           asset or the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired. Where the entity has transferred an asset,
           the Company evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
           In such cases, the financial asset is derecognised.

       v. Reclassification of financial assets

			        The Company determines classification of financial assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After initial recognition,
           no reclassification is made for financial assets which are equity instruments and financial liabilities. For financial assets
           which are debt instruments, a reclassification is made only if there is a change in the business model for managing those
           assets. Changes to the business model are expected to be infrequent. The Company’s senior management determines
           change in the business model as a result of external or internal changes which are significant to the Company’s
           operations. Such changes are evident to external parties. A change in the business model occurs when the Company
           either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations. If the Company reclassifies financial
           assets, it applies the reclassification prospectively from the reclassification date which is the first day of the immediately
           next reporting period following the change in business model. The Company does not restate any previously recognised
           gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest.

			        The Company applies amortised cost, where it has ability to demonstrate that the underlying instruments in the portfolio
           fulfill the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) test and the churn in the portfolio is negligible.

7   Derivative and hedging activities

    The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as range forward and par forward currency contracts to hedge its
    foreign currency risks. Such derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date at which the derivative
    contract is entered and are subsequently re-measured at fair value as at the end of each reporting period. The accounting for
    subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature
    of the item being hedged, and the type of hedge relationship designated.

    The Company documents its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. In terms
    thereof, the company designates their derivatives as hedges of foreign exchange risks associated with the cash flow of highly
    probable forecast transactions (viz. export sales).

    The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the
    hedged item is more than 12 months; it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item
    is less than or equal to 12 months.

    Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting –

    The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised
    in the other comprehensive income in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of
    the hedged item on a present value basis from the inception of the hedge. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is
    recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss, within other gains/(losses).

    For hedge accounting, hedges are classified as Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is
    either attributable to a risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign
    currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.

    When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates them in entirety as the hedging
    instrument. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value for the effective portion of cash flow hedges is recognised
    in OCI and later reclassified to profit or loss when the hedge item affects profit or loss.


16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited      129
                  Standalone                                                      Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
    Where option contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Company designates intrinsic value of the option contract as
    hedging instrument.

    Gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in intrinsic value of the option contract are recognised in the
    ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The changes in time value of the option contracts that relate to the hedged items are
    recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’ within equity.

    When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any
    cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a forecast
    transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to
    the Statement of Profit and Loss. When a hedging instrument is unexercised and expires, the cumulative gain or loss is reversed
    within equity with the corresponding effect to the hedge receivable/payable.

    If the hedge ratio for risk management is no longer optimal, but risk management objectives remain unchanged and hedge
    continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationships are re-balanced so that the hedge ratio aligns. Consequently,
    hedge ineffectiveness is computed and accounted for in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

8   Impairment of non-financial assets

    Assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
    recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable
    amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of
    assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are
    largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets (cash-generating units).

9   Foreign currency transactions

    i)   Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which
         the Company operates (‘the functional currency’).

    ii) On initial recognition, all foreign currency transactions are recorded at the foreign exchange rate on the date of the
        transaction.

    iii) Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency outstanding at the close of the financial year are revalorised at the
         appropriate exchange rates prevailing at the close of the year.

    iv) The gain or loss on decrease/increase in reporting currency due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, in case of monetary
        assets and liabilities in foreign currency, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

    v) Fixed assets purchased at liaison offices in foreign exchange are recorded at their historical cost computed with reference to
       the average rate of foreign exchange remitted to the liaison office.

    vi) Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
        rates at the dates of the initial transactions.

    vii) In determining the spot exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) on the
         derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to advance consideration, the date of the transaction
         is the date on which the Company initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the
         advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the Company determines the transaction date
         for each payment or receipt of advance consideration.

10 Inventories

    Cost of inventories have been computed to include all costs of purchases (including materials), cost of conversion and other costs
    incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

    i)   Finished stocks of vehicles and auto spare parts and stocks of work-in-progress are valued at cost of manufacturing or net
         realisable value whichever is lower. Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.




130      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone                                                      Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes      Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   ii) Stores, packing materials and tools are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
       whichever is lower.

   iii) Raw materials and components are valued at cost arrived at on a weighted average basis or net realisable value,
        whichever is lower.

   iv) Inventory of machinery spares and maintenance materials not being material are expensed in the year of purchase.

   v) Goods in transit are stated at actual cost incurred up to the date of Balance Sheet.

   Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the
   estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

11 Employee benefits

   a) Privilege leave entitlements

		     Privilege leave entitlements are recognised as a liability, in the calendar year of rendering of service, as per the rules of the
       Company. As accumulated leave can be availed and/or encashed at any time during the tenure of employment, subject to
       terms and conditions of the scheme, the liability is recognised based on an independent actuarial valuation.

		     They are therefore measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided
       by employees up to the end of the reporting period using the projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted using
       the market yields at the end of the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
       Remeasurements as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in Statement
       of Profit and Loss.

   b) Gratuity

		     Payment for present liability of future payment of gratuity is being made to approved gratuity fund, which fully covers the
       same under Cash Accumulation Policy and Debt fund of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and Bajaj Allianz Life
       Insurance Company Ltd. (BALIC). However, any deficit in plan assets managed by LIC and BALIC as compared to the liability
       based on an independent actuarial valuation is recognised as a liability.

		     The liability or asset recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present value of the
       defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation
       is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method in conformity with the principles and manner of
       computation specified in Ind AS 19.

		     Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net
       interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on the
       net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the Balance Sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained
       earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent
       periods.

		     The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair
       value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

   c) Superannuation

		     Defined contribution to superannuation fund is being made as per the scheme of the Company and recognised as expense as
       and when due.

   d) Provident fund contributions are made to Company’s Provident Fund Trust. The contributions are accounted for as defined
      benefit plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Deficits, if any, of the fund
      as compared to liability based on an independent actuarial valuation is to be additionally contributed by the Company and
      hence recognised as a liability.

   e) Defined contribution to Employees Pension Scheme 1995 is made to Government Provident Fund Authority and recognised
      as expense as and when due.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited      131
                 Standalone                                                      Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes      Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
12 Taxation

   a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
      authorities, in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961; and the Income Computation and Disclosure Standards prescribed
      therein. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the
      reporting date.

   b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other
      comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI
      or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which
      applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.

   c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
      liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
      enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
      asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

		     Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
       future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

		     The Company offsets deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off
       current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes
       levied by the same taxation authority which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise
       the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities
       or assets are expected to be settled or recovered.

13 Provisions and contingent liabilities

   The Company creates a provision when there is present obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow
   of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
   amount of the obligation. A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation
   that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of resources. When the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no
   provision or disclosure is made.

   If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when
   appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is
   recognised as a finance cost.

14 Leases including investment properties

   The Company assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract conveys the right
   to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

   As a lessee

   a) Right of use assets

		     The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is
       available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and
       adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
       recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease
       incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the
       estimated useful lives of the assets.

		     If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the exercise of a
       purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset.

		     The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to note 1 clause 8 for accounting policies on impairment of
       non-financial assets.




132     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone                                                     Changes                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   b) Lease liabilities

		     At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease
       payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments primarily comprise of fixed payments.

		     In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease
       commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement
       date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made.

   c) Short term leases and leases of low value assets

		     The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of office spaces and certain
       equipment (i.e. those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a
       purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of office equipment that are
       considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense
       on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

   As a lessor

   Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset
   are classified as operating leases. Rental income arising is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Initial
   direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and
   recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income

15 Government grant

   Grants from the Government are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be
   received, and the Company will comply with all attached conditions.

   Government grants relating to income are deferred and recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary to match them
   with the costs that they are intended to compensate and presented within other operating revenue.

   Government grants in the nature of export incentives are accounted for in the period of export of goods if the entitlements can be
   estimated with reasonable accuracy and conditions precedent to claim are reasonably expected to be fulfilled.

   When loans or similar assistance are provided by Governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current
   applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable interest is regarded as a Government grant. The loan or assistance is initially
   recognised and measured at fair value and the Government grant is measured as the difference between the initial carrying value
   of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy applicable to financial
   liabilities.

16 Dividends

   Provision is made for any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity, on or
   before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.

17 Cash and cash equivalents

   For presentation in the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, other short-term, highly
   liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and
   which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

18 Earnings per share

   Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the
   weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s
   earnings per share is the net profit for the period. The weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period
   and all periods presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, other than the conversion of potential equity shares that
   have changed the number of equity shares outstanding without a corresponding change in resources.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        133
                 Standalone                                                        Changes                                      Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet     Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows      Notes       Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
   For calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the
   weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.

19 Segment reporting

   Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Core Management Committee
   which includes the Managing Director who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Core Management Committee examines
   performance both from a product as well as from a geographical perspective and has identified two operative reportable
   segments from which significant risks and rewards are derived viz. Automotive business and Investments.

20 Fair value measurement

   The Company measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives at fair value at each Balance Sheet date. Fair value is the
   price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
   at the measurement date.

   The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:

   • In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
   • In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
   The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.

   The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the
   asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their best economic interest.

   A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits
   by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest
   and best use.

   The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to
   measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.

   All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair
   value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:

   • Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities

   • Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or
       indirectly observable

   • Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
   The Company has set policies and procedures for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurement of financial assets,
   which includes valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.

   For fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities based on the nature, characteristics and
   risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.

   This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes.

   • Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions (note 1 clause 1)

   • Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy (note 32)

   • Investment properties (note 3)

   • Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) (note 32)




134     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone                                                     Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company (Contd.)
21 Other Income

   a) Dividends

		     Dividends are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss only when the right to receive payment is established, and it
       is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company and that the amount of the
       dividend can be measured reliably.

   b) Other income

		     The Company recognises income on accrual basis. However, where the ultimate collection of the same lacks reasonable
       certainty, revenue recognition is postponed to the extent revenue is reasonably certain and can be reliably measured.

22 Employee stock options

   Certain employees (including senior executives) of the Company receive part of their remuneration in the form of employee stock
   options (ESOP).

   The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate
   valuation model. Further details are given in note 43.

   That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in share-based payment reserve in equity, over the period in
   which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. The cumulative expense recognised
   for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has
   expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense or credit in
   the Statement of Profit and Loss for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and
   end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense.

   Service and non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of
   ESOPs, but the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity
   instruments that will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions are reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other
   conditions attached to an ESOP, but without an associated service requirement, are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
   Non-vesting conditions are reflected in the fair value of an ESOP and lead to an immediate expensing of an ESOP unless there
   are also service and/or performance conditions.

   No expense is recognised for ESOPs that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and/or service
   conditions have not been met. Where ESOPs include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as
   vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or
   service conditions are satisfied.

   The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.

23 Treasury shares

   The Company has created an ESOP Trust (the ‘Trust’) for providing share-based payment to its employees. The Company uses the
   Trust as a vehicle for distributing shares to employees under the Employee Stock Option Scheme. The Trust purchase shares of
   the Company from the market, for giving shares to employees. The Company treats Trust as its extension and shares held by the
   Trust are treated as treasury shares.

   Own equity instruments that are re-acquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from other equity. No gain or
   loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the company’s own equity
   instruments. Share options exercised during the reporting period are settled with treasury shares.

24 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures

   New and amended standards

   Several amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in March 2023, but do not have an impact on the standalone
   financial statements of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standards or amendments that have been issued
   but are not yet effective.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited      135
                               Standalone                                                                                         Changes                                               Consolidated
Non-Financials                 Financials                Audit Report                   Balance Sheet          Profit and Loss    in Equity          Cash Flows           Notes         Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Gross block (a)                                              Depreciation                             Net block
                                                                As at                                                    As at          As at                                         As at         As at
                                                              1 April                                Deductions/     31 March         1 April                       For the       31 March      31 March
Particulars                                                     2022               Additions         adjustments         2023           2022    Deductions          year (b)          2023          2023



Land freehold                                                   19.97                        –                 –          19.97            –            –                 –               –          19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                           152.41                        –              1.98        150.43             –            –                 –               –        150.43
Buildings                                                      979.94                   301.32                 –      1,281.26        382.27            –             23.57         405.84         875.42
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                17.79                     0.04                 –          17.83        15.06            –              0.33           15.39           2.44
Plant and machinery                                         1,296.05                    147.49             17.83      1,425.71      1,032.69         11.84            55.64        1,076.49         349.22
Computers and IT Equipment                                      83.42                     7.44              7.38         83.48         76.94          7.38             3.87           73.43          10.05
Dies and jigs                                                  741.07                   120.69              6.56        855.20        475.31          6.43            74.72         543.60          311.60
Electric installations                                          75.04                     8.25                 –         83.29         72.67            –              1.16           73.83           9.46
Factory equipment                                              458.81                    37.84              0.82        495.83        269.83          0.78            25.64          294.69         201.14
Furniture                                                       46.54                     1.01              0.13          47.42        31.88          0.13             3.31           35.06          12.36
Office equipment                                                56.89                     3.24              0.14          59.99        42.06          0.14             3.84           45.76          14.23
Electric fittings                                               36.89                     2.18              0.17         38.90         28.23          0.17             1.72           29.78           9.12
Vehicles and aircraft                                          501.18                   538.64            295.62        744.20        281.49        262.33            55.19           74.35        669.85
Total                                                       4,466.00                1,168.14              330.63      5,303.51      2,708.43       289.20           248.99         2,668.22      2,635.29


Capital work-in-progress                                        76.82                    81.67             76.57         81.92             –            –                 –               –         81.92

(a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
(b) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.
(c) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to property, plant and equipment.
(d) No assets acquired or transferred as part of business combination.



Ageing Schedule for Capital work-in-progress

                                                     Less than                                         More than
Particulars                                             1 year        1-2 years          2-3 years       3 years     Total


Projects in progress                                        81.28                0.64            –             –      81.92
Projects temporarily suspended                                  –                  –             –             –         –
Total                                                      81.28             0.64                –             –      81.92
There are no delayed and overrun projects.




136           Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                                Standalone                                                                                       Changes                                              Consolidated
Non-Financials                  Financials                Audit Report                  Balance Sheet          Profit and Loss   in Equity          Cash Flows           Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment (Contd.)
  Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)
                                                                                        Gross block (a)                                             Depreciation                             Net block
                                                                 As at                                                   As at         As at                                         As at          As at
                                                               1 April                               Deductions/     31 March        1 April                       For the       31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                      2021              Additions         adjustments         2022          2021    Deductions          year (b)          2022           2022



Land freehold                                                    19.97                       –                 –         19.97            –            –                 –              –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right-of-use assets)                             47.28                  107.11              1.98        152.41            –            –                 –              –          152.41
Buildings                                                      976.00                     4.30              0.36        979.94       360.79          0.22            21.70         382.27          597.67
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                                 17.74                    0.05                 –         17.79        14.30            –              0.76          15.06            2.73
Plant and machinery                                          1,368.53                    27.35             99.83      1,296.05     1,064.25         89.08            57.52        1,032.69         263.36
Computers and IT Equipment                                       84.01                    4.67              5.26         83.42        78.32          5.26             3.88          76.94            6.48
Dies and jigs                                                  661.18                    83.21              3.32        741.07       401.97          3.13            76.47         475.31          265.76
Electric installations                                           74.30                    0.74                 –         75.04        71.44            –              1.23          72.67            2.37
Factory equipment                                              439.28                    21.29              1.76        458.81       244.02          1.60            27.41         269.83          188.98
Furniture                                                        44.35                    2.27              0.08         46.54        28.69          0.08             3.27          31.88           14.66
Office equipment                                                 53.13                    3.95              0.19         56.89        38.69          0.19             3.56          42.06           14.83
Electric fittings                                                36.81                    0.33              0.25         36.89        26.69          0.25             1.79          28.23            8.66
Vehicles and aircraft                                          356.50                   203.35             58.67        501.18       284.59         49.55            46.45         281.49          219.69
Total                                                        4,179.08                   458.62            171.70      4,466.00     2,613.75       149.36           244.04        2,708.43       1,757.57


Capital work-in-progress                                         15.98                   73.61             12.77         76.82            –            –                 –              –          76.82

(a) At cost, except leasehold land which is at cost, less amounts written off.
(b) Refer note 1 clause 3 of summary of significant accounting policies.
(c) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to property, plant and equipment.
(d) No assets acquired or transferred as part of business combination.



Ageing Schedule for Capital work-in-progress

                                                      Less than                                        More than
Particulars                                              1 year        1-2 years         2-3 years       3 years     Total


Projects in progress                                         74.55               0.34            –           1.93     76.82
Projects temporarily suspended                                   –                 –             –             –         –
Total                                                       74.55                0.34            –          1.93      76.82
There are no delayed and overrun projects.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited           137
                  Standalone                                                       Changes                                       Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                            2023               2022


Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                        69.66               69.66
Additions                                                                                                                   –                   –
Closing balance                                                                                                        69.66               69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                        18.53               17.36
Depreciation charge                                                                                                       1.12               1.17
Closing balance                                                                                                         19.65              18.53
Net carrying amount                                                                                                    50.01               51.13


i) Amounts recognised in the Statement of profit and loss for investment properties
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                            2023               2022


Rental income                                                                                                          14.59               12.08
Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income                                                    (1.01)             (0.21)
Direct operating expenses from property that did not generate rental income                                                 –                   –
Profit from investment properties before depreciation                                                                  13.58               11.87
Depreciation                                                                                                            (1.12)             (1.17)
Profit from investment property                                                                                        12.46               10.70

ii) Contractual obligations

   The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property. There are no contractual obligations to purchase,
   construct or develop investment property as at the year end.

iii) Leasing arrangements		

   Investment property is leased out to various tenants under operating leases. Disclosure on future rent receivable is included in Note 40.

iv) Fair value
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                            2023               2022


Investment property                                                                                                   223.09             223.03

Estimation of fair value

The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar properties. Since investment properties leased
out by the Company are cancellable and non-cancellable leases, the market rate for sale/purchase of such premises are
representative of fair values. Company’s investment properties are at a location where active market is available for similar kind
of properties. Hence, fair value is ascertained on the basis of market rates prevailing for similar properties in those location
determined by an independent registered valuer, as defined under rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation)
Rules 2017, and consequently classified as a level 2 valuation.


138     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
                              Standalone                                                                                  Changes                                                Consolidated
Non-Financials                Financials                Audit Report              Balance Sheet       Profit and Loss     in Equity          Cash Flows            Notes         Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
4 Intangible assets
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                       Gross block                                            Amortisation                             Net block
                                                                  As at                                           As at         As at                                          As at         As at
                                                                1 April                       Deductions/     31 March        1 April                             For      31 March      31 March
Particulars                                                       2022            Additions   adjustments         2023          2022    Deductions           the year          2023          2023



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired                             95.56               35.73             -        131.29        70.24             -             30.35          100.59          30.70
Total intangible assets                                          95.56                35.73             -       131.29         70.24             -             30.35         100.59          30.70


Intangible assets under development                                    –                 –             –              –            –            –                  –               –               –

(a) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to intangible assets.




4 Intangible assets
  Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                       Gross block                                            Amortisation                             Net block
                                                                  As at                                           As at         As at                                          As at          As at
                                                                1 April                       Deductions/     31 March        1 April                             For      31 March       31 March
Particulars                                                       2021            Additions   adjustments         2022          2021    Deductions           the year          2022           2022



Intangible assets
Technical know-how developed/acquired                             95.56                   -             -         95.56        48.26             -             21.98           70.24          25.32
Total intangible assets                                          95.56                    -             -         95.56        48.26             -             21.98           70.24         25.32


Intangible assets under development                                    –                 –             –              –            –            –                  –               –               –

(a) No revaluation has been done during the year with respect to intangible assets.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                      Bajaj Auto Limited           139
                    Standalone                                                        Changes                                          Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows          Notes       Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

                                                                                      Non–current investments               Current investments
                                                                                            As at 31 March                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                 2023               2022            2023             2022



(A) Investment in subsidiaries
   Investment carried at cost
       In subsidiaries
       Unquoted:
                  1,980,000 (1,980,000 ) Equity Shares of Euro 100 each in
                            Bajaj Auto International Holding BV Amsterdam,
                            Netherlands                                                  1,218.72            1,218.72              –                  –
                    449,997 (449,997) Equity Shares of Thai Baht 100 each in
                            Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd                                       10.54              10.54               –                  –
                    411,875 (411,875) Equity Shares of USD 3 each in
                            PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                           6.17               6.17              –                  –
                              Less: Provision for diminution in the value
                              of investment                                                   2.17               2.17              –                  –
                                                                                              4.00              4.00               –                  –
               470,000,000 (5,000,000) Equity Shares of H 10 each in
                           Chetak Technology Ltd.                                          470.00               5.00
                 30,000,000 (–) Equity Shares of Reais 1 each in
                            Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda                   48.00                  –
                 30,000,000 (5,000,000) Equity Shares of H 10 each in
                            Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.                                30.00               5.00
                        6,000 (6,000) Equity Shares of Euro 100 each in
                              Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.                                         5.17               5.17
Total (A)                                                                                1,786.43        1,248.43                  –                  –


(B) Other Investments
   Investment carried at Fair Value through OCI
       In Equities:
              Quoted:
                  3,500,000 (3,500,000) Equity Shares of H 10 each in
                            Bajaj Holdings & Investments Ltd.                            2,072.04        1,753.87                  –                  –
              Unquoted:
                     20,576 (17,495) Compulsorily Convertible Preference
                            Shares of H 100 each in Yulu Bikes Private Ltd.                202.90             144.21               –                  –
                         100 (–) Equity Shares of H 1 each in Yulu Bikes
                             Private Ltd.                                                     0.08                 –               –                  –
                              Fair value                                                 2,275.02        1,898.08                  –                  –


   Investment carried at amortised cost
       In Bonds and debentures:
              Quoted:
                         500 (500) 8.30% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                             of H 1,000,000 each                                            52.22              53.23               –                  –
                                                                     Carried over           52.22              53.23               –                  –
                                                                     Carried over        2,275.02        1,898.08                  –                  –



140     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                              16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone                                                       Changes                                        Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet     Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows       Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)

                                                                                     Non–current investments           Current investments
                                                                                           As at 31 March                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                2023              2022          2023              2022



                                                                   Brought over         2,275.02        1,898.08               –                   –
       In Bonds and debentures: (Contd.)
              Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                   Brought over            52.22             53.23             –                   –
                        300 (300) 8.11% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                             31.49            32.03             –                   –
                      1,350 (1,350) 5.85% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                           135.04            135.08             –                   –
                      3,000 (3,000) 6.80% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                                  –          307.10        301.46                   –
                      1,650 (1,650) 6.92% Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                                  –          168.65        165.16                   –
                      1,500 (1,500) 6.50% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                           152.08            152.89             –                   –
                        500 (500) 7.04% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                                  –           51.17         50.04                   –
                      3,100 (3,100) 6.72% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                                  –          316.30        310.93                   –
                      2,500 (2,500) 6.75% Power Finance Corporation Ltd.
                            of H 1,000,000 each                                                  –          254.95        250.55                   –
                        500 (500) 8.18% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                          53.46             53.95             –                   –
                      1,750 (1,750) 8.24% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                         188.81            190.65             –                   –
                      4,550 (4,550) 7.43% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                         477.45            480.01             –                   –
                        700 (700) 7.10% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                           72.76            73.08             –                   –
                        600 (600) 6.87% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                           61.09            61.21             –                   –
                      2,800 (2,800) 6.39% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                         277.58            277.36             –                   –
                        750 (750) 6.42% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                          73.58             73.38             –                   –
                        250 (250) 6.44% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                          24.59             24.54             –                   –
                      1,900 (1,900) 6.49% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                         189.56            189.38             –                   –
                        100 (100) 6.50% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                                –           10.19         10.00                   –
                        250 (250) 6.72% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                                –           25.52         25.01                   –
                        250 (250) 6.85% National Bank for Agriculture and
                            Rural Development of H 1,000,000 each                           25.17            25.19             –                   –
                                                                    Carried over        1,814.88        2,955.86         1,113.15                  –
                                                                    Carried over        2,275.02        1,898.08               –                   –




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited        141
                    Standalone                                                         Changes                                          Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials      Audit Report    Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows        Notes         Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                             (H In Crore)

                                                                                       Non–current investments             Current investments
                                                                                             As at 31 March                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                  2023              2022            2023              2022



                                                                      Brought over        2,275.02        1,898.08                 –                   –
       In Bonds and debentures: (Contd.)
              Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                      Brought over        1,814.88        2,955.86           1,113.15                  –
                        5,000 (5,000) 5.05% Bajaj Finance Ltd. of H 1,000,000 each                 –          499.94          499.88                   –
                        1,250 (1,250) 7.20% Housing Development Finance
                              Corporation Ltd. of H 1,000,000 each                                 –          127.93          125.07                   –
                            – (2,500) 5.30% Housing Development Finance
                              Corporation Ltd. of H 1,000,000 each                                 –              –                –            250.93
                               Amortised cost                                             1,814.88        3,583.73          1,738.10            250.93


       In Government Bonds and securities:
              Quoted:
                  5,000,000 (5,000,000) 8.03% Gujarat State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                                52.61            53.80               –                   –
                 26,500,000 (26,500,000) 7.89% Gujarat State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                              278.53            284.42               –                   –
                 10,000,000 (10,000,000) 6.49% Gujarat State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                              100.30            100.34               –                   –
                  5,000,000 (5,000,000) 6.57% Gujarat State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                                50.13            50.14               –                   –
                  7,464,200 (7,464,200) 7.77% Gujarat State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                                     –           77.48           75.15                   –
                  1,000,000 (1,000,000) 7.98% Karnataka State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                               10.60             10.82               –                   –
                 10,000,000 (10,000,000) 6.53% Karnataka State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                              100.33            100.36               –                   –
                  4,150,000 (4,150,000) 6.54% Karnataka State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                                41.55            41.55               –                   –
                  7,500,000 (7,500,000) 6.96% Karnataka State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                               75.54             75.59               –                   –
                  1,000,000 (1,000,000) 8.15% Maharashtra State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                               10.68             10.90               –                   –
                  5,000,000 (5,000,000) 7.95% Maharashtra State Development
                            Loan of H 100 each                                                     –           52.07           50.43                   –
                               Amortised cost                                               720.27            857.47          125.58                   –


       In Certificate of Deposit:
              Unquoted:
                        5,500 (–) Certificate of Deposit of H 500,000 each of
                              Axis Bank – 23.11.2023                                               –              –           261.93                   –
                        2,000 (–) Certificate of Deposit of H 500,000 each of
                              Axis Bank – 29.11.2023                                               –              –            95.15                   –
                                                                       Carried over                –              –           357.08                   –
                                                                       Carried over        4,810.17       6,339.28          1,863.68            250.93



142     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                             16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone                                                        Changes                                          Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet     Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows         Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

                                                                                      Non–current investments             Current investments
                                                                                            As at 31 March                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                 2023               2022           2023              2022



                                                                     Brought over         4,810.17       6,339.28          1,863.68            250.93
		     In Certificate of Deposit: (Contd.)
			Unquoted: (Contd.)
                                                                     Brought over                 –                –         357.08                   –
                      3,000 (–) Certificate of Deposit of H 500,000 each of Bank
                            of Baroda – 15.11.2023                                                –                –         143.16                   –
                      4,000 (–) Certificate of Deposit of H 500,000 each of Bank
                            of Baroda – 30.11.2023                                                –                –         190.28                   –
                      2,000 (–) Certificate of Deposit of H 500,000 each of ICICI
                            Bank – 30.11.2023                                                     –                –          95.14                   –
                      7,500 (–) Certificate of Deposit of H 500,000 each of ICICI
                            Bank – 17.11.2023                                                     –                –         357.75                   –
                             Amortised cost                                                       –                –        1,143.41                  –


       In Fixed Deposits:
              Unquoted:
                          – 5.25% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                         –           500.00              –                   –
                          – 5.30% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                         –           500.00              –                   –
                          – 5.25% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                         –           115.00              –                   –
                          – 7.55% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                         –                –         300.00                   –
                          – 7.55% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                         –                –         200.00                   –
                          – 7.90% HDFC Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                         –                –         400.00                   –
                          – 7.55% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                –                –         300.00                   –
                          – 7.90% Bajaj Finance Ltd. Fixed Deposit                                –                –         200.00                   –
                             Amortised cost                                                       –          1,115.00      1,400.00                   –


       In Fixed maturity plans
              Unquoted:
                 44,000,000 (604,182,600) Units of Aditya Birla Sun Life Fixed
                            Term Plan Direct Growth                                         46.79              44.06              –            736.77
                          – (10,000,000) Units of DSP Fixed Maturity Plan
                            Direct Growth                                                         –                –              –              12.72
                          – (625,557) Units of PGIM India Fixed Maturity Fund
                            Direct Plan Growth                                                    –                –              –              85.26
                 50,000,000 (468,000,000) Units of HDFC Fixed Maturity Plan                 53.20              50.19              –            542.19
                 10,000,000 (471,000,000) Units of ICICI – Prudential Fixed
                            Maturity Plan                                                         –            11.51          12.28            615.44
                 74,996,250 (684,996,250) Units of Kotak Fixed Maturity
                            Plan Growth                                                     82.43              77.80              –            798.90
                          – (105,000,000) Units of HSBC Fixed Maturity
                            Plan Direct Growth                                                    –                –              –            139.31
                                                                     Carried over          182.42             183.56          12.28          2,930.59
                                                                     Carried over         4,810.17       7,454.28          4,407.09            250.93



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited        143
                    Standalone                                                        Changes                                         Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet     Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows        Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)

                                                                                      Non–current investments             Current investments
                                                                                            As at 31 March                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                 2023              2022           2023              2022



                                                                    Brought over          4,810.17       7,454.28          4,407.09           250.93
       In Fixed maturity plans (Contd.)
              Unquoted: (Contd.)
                                                                    Brought over           182.42            183.56          12.28          2,930.59
                 74,996,250 (489,996,250) Units of Nippon India Fixed Horizon
                            Fund Growth                                                      81.42            76.76              –            550.80
                           – (40,000,000) Units of Invesco Fixed Maturity Plan
                             Direct Growth                                                        –              –               –              53.05
               484,996,250 (749,996,250) Units of SBI Debt Fund
                           Direct Plan Growth                                              523.90            494.79              –            342.56
                           – (10,000,000) Units of Tata Fixed Maturity
                             Plan Growth                                                          –              –               –              13.12
                           – (10,000,000) Units of UTI Fixed Maturity Plan Growth                 –              –               –              13.53
                             Amortised cost                                                787.74            755.11          12.28          3,903.65


       In Exchange Traded Funds
              Quoted:
                  8,724,846 (8,724,846) Bharat Bond ETF April 2025                       1,005.69            953.97              –                   –
                 15,940,436 (15,940,436) Bharat Bond ETF – April 2030                    2,063.50        1,934.05                –                   –
                  3,565,094 (3,565,094) Bharat Bond ETF – April 2031                       413.72            387.70              –                   –
                  4,282,638 (4,282,638) Bharat Bond ETF – April 2032                       463.19            433.31              –                   –
                 13,695,640 (13,695,640) Nippon India ETF Nifty CPSE Bond
                            Plus SDL – 2024 Maturity                                       157.64            150.01              –                   –
                 43,000,000 (43,000,000) Nippon India ETF Nifty SDL – April 2026           493.71            466.70              –                   –
               205,847,653 (64,996,750) Nippon India Nifty AAA CPSE Bond
                           Plus SDL Apr 2027 Maturity 60:40 Index Fund                     214.16             65.08              –                   –
                 48,828,497 (–) Nippon India Nifty SDL Plus G–Sec Jun 2028
                            70:30 Index Fund                                                50.02                –               –                   –
               263,770,566 (263,770,566) Aditya Birla Sun Life Nifty SDL Plus
                           PSU Bond Sep 2026 60:40 Index Fund                              285.04            269.26              –                   –
               166,093,651 (166,093,651) Aditya Birla Sun Life Nifty SDL
                           Apr 2027 Index Fund                                             178.14            167.84              –                   –
               226,004,362 (100,000,000) Aditya Birla Sun Life Crisil SDL Plus
                           AAA PSU Apr 2027 60:40 Index Fund                               236.38            100.05              –                   –
                 76,795,997 (–) Aditya Birla Sun Life Crisil IBX 50:50 GILT Plus
                            SDL Apr 2028 Index Fund                                         80.04                –               –                   –
                113,891,937 (113,891,937) Kotak Nifty SDL Apr 2027 Top 12
                            Equal Weight Index Fund                                        121.58            114.44              –                   –
                 20,000,000 (20,000,000) Kotak Nifty SDL Apr 2032
                            Top 12 Equal Weight Index Fund                                  21.58             20.18              –                   –
                 48,396,620 (–) Kotak Nifty SDL Plus AAA PSU Bond Jul 2028
                            60:40 Index Fund                                                50.03                –               –                   –
                                                                     Carried over        5,834.42        5,062.59                –                   –
                                                                     Carried over        5,597.91        8,209.39          4,419.37         4,154.58




144     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                            16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone                                                      Changes                                          Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows         Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)

                                                                                    Non–current investments             Current investments
                                                                                          As at 31 March                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                               2023               2022           2023              2022


                                                                   Brought over        5,597.91        8,209.39           4,419.37         4,154.58
		     In Exchange Traded Funds (Contd.)
			Quoted: (Contd.)
                                                                   Brought over        5,834.42        5,062.59                 –                   –
               298,359,352 (298,359,352) SBI CPSE Bond Plus SDL Sep 2026
                           50:50 Index Fund                                              320.04            302.05               –                   –
                183,849,514 (87,162,962) Axis Crisil SDL 2027 Debt Index Fund            192.58              87.13              –                   –
               192,038,100 (–) HSBC Crisil IBX 50:50 Gilt Plus SDL Apr 2028
                           Index Fund                                                    200.11                  –              –                   –
                191,980,955 (–) DSP Nifty SDL Plus G–Sec Jun 2028 30:70
                            Index Fund                                                   200.11                  –              –                   –
                  81,937,188 (–) ICICI Prudential Nifty SDL Dec 2028 Index Fund           85.05                  –              –                   –
                 63,868,446 (63,868,446) ICICI Prudential Nifty SDL Sep 2027
                            Index Fund                                                    68.06              64.04              –                   –
                             Amortised cost                                            6,900.37        5,515.81                 –                   –


   Investment carried at fair value through profit or loss
       In Short-term Funds
              Quoted:
                 34,631,684 (34,631,684) Units of DSP Banking and PSU Debt
                            Fund – Direct Plan – Growth                                    72.11             69.17              –                   –
               673,225,624 (341,788,061) Units of Bandhan Corporate Bond
                           Fund – Direct Plan–Growth (erstwhile IDFC
                           Corporate Bond Fund–Direct Plan–Growth)                      1,117.70           548.23               –                   –
                 14,296,498 (14,296,498) Units of Bandhan Super Saver Income
                            Fund – Short Term–Direct Plan–Growth (erstwhile
                            IDFC Bond Fund–Direct Plan–Growth)                             72.96             70.05              –                   –
                 117,182,739 (–) Units of Bandhan Banking and PSU Debt Fund
                             – Direct Plan – Growth (erstwhile IDFC Banking
                             and PSU Debt Fund – Direct Plan – Growth)                   250.22                  –              –                   –
                 30,603,467 (30,603,467) Units of Kotak Bond Short Term
                            Plan–Direct Plan – Growth                                    146.05             139.84              –                   –
                 30,779,648 (30,779,648) Units of HSBC Short Duration Fund –
                            Direct Plan– Growth                                           72.34              69.60              –                   –
               122,864,287 (92,496,457) Units of Nippon India Floating Rate
                           Fund – Short Term–Direct Plan – Growth                        485.50             349.12              –                   –
                146,141,389 (146,141,389) Units of ICICI Prudential Income
                            Opportunities Fund – Direct Plan–Growth                      512.01            486.23               –                   –
               449,031,864 (449,031,864) Units of HDFC Medium Term
                           Opportunities Fund – Direct Plan–Growth                     1,240.19            1,189.10             –                   –
                           – (47,617,832) Units of Sundaram Banking and PSU
                             Debt Fund – Direct Plan– Growth                                    –           168.27              –                   –
                116,201,242 (–) Units of HSBC Banking and PSU Debt Fund –
                            Direct Plan– Growth                                          250.17                  –              –                   –
                             Fair value                                                4,219.25        3,089.61                 –                   –
                                                                   Carried over       16,717.53       16,814.81           4,419.37         4,154.58



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited        145
                     Standalone                                                                    Changes                                                Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials        Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity            Cash Flows         Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)

                                                                                                  Non–current investments                  Current investments
                                                                                                          As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                2023               2022               2023              2022


                                                                               Brought over           16,717.53          16,814.81           4,419.37           4,154.58
         In Long Duration Bond Funds
              Quoted:
                             – (82,700,443) Units of Nippon India Dynamic Bond
                               Fund – Direct Plan – Growth                                                      –           262.47                    –                    –
                             – (83,348,103) Units of L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund –
                               Direct Plan –Growth                                                              –           523.92                    –                    –
                                 Fair Value                                                                     –           786.39                    –                    –


         In Liquid and Overnight mutual funds
              Quoted:
                             – (1,167,236) Bandhan Liquid Fund –
                               Direct Plan –Growth                                                              –                  –                  –           300.09
                             – (847,353) SBI Overnight Fund –
                               Direct Plan –Growth                                                              –                  –                  –           293.30
                             – (19,379,916) Nippon India Overnight Fund –
                               Direct Plan –Growth                                                              –                  –                  –            221.16
                                 Fair Value                                                                     –                  –                  –           814.55


Total (B)                                                                                             16,717.53          17,601.20           4,419.37            4,969.13


Total (A+B)                                                                                           18,503.96          18,849.63           4,419.37            4,969.13


Aggregate provision for diminution in value of investments                                                   2.17               2.17                  –                    –

                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                           Book value                           Market value
                                                                                                          As at 31 March                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                2023               2022               2023              2022



                                                                                      Quoted          17,590.49          16,652.36          17,271.67          16,563.73
                                                                                   Unquoted            5,332.84            7,166.40                 NA                 NA
                                                                                        Total        22,923.33          23,818.76
Notes to Investments
1 Investments made by the Company other than those with a maturity of less than one year, are intended to be held for long-term. On an assessment of the expected
  credit loss due to significant changes in risk profile, no material provisions are required to be made.
2 In absence of an active market and non availability of quotes on a recognised stock exchange, investment in fixed maturity plans and fixed term plans though listed on
  recognised stock exchanges are disclosed as unquoted. Other mutual funds, though unlisted, are quoted on recognised stock exchanges at their previous day NAVs
  which is the quote for the day.
3 Refer note 1 (6) for accounting policy on investments and note 33 for credit risk management related to investments.




146       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                           16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone                                                                     Changes                                                 Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials        Audit Report       Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity             Cash Flows         Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2023               2022                2023               2022



Employee loans                                                                                                2.28                4.57                3.62                  4.17
                                                                                                              2.28                4.57                3.62                  4.17


7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non-current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2023               2022                2023               2022



Non-current bank balances [See note 12]                                                                       0.02                0.02                   –                    –
Security deposits                                                                                            33.56               27.04                   –                    –
Interest receivable on investments                                                                                –             34.33              156.41             129.71
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                                                                       –                   –               0.57                  0.55
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments [See note 32]                                                   –                   –                  –             80.53
PSI Receivable                                                                                                    –                   –           263.02              345.78
Other advances                                                                                                    –                   –             50.81              39.69
                                                                                                             33.58               61.39            470.81              596.26
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally. [See note 39]




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited               147
                    Standalone                                                    Changes                                           Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials   Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows        Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)

                                                                                        Non-current                          Current
                                                                                        As at 31 March                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                             2023             2022            2023                2022



Capital advances                                                                        39.80            269.73                –                   –
Security deposits                                                                         8.47             6.43                –                   –
Advances recoverable in cash or in kind
   Advances to related parties [See note 39]                                                  –              –            12.07               11.32
   Other advances                                                                       26.99             22.94         100.72              114.54
   Doubtful advances                                                                      4.03             8.13                –                   –
                                                                                         31.02            31.07          112.79             125.86
   Provision for doubtful advances                                                        4.03             8.13                –                   –
                                                                                        26.99             22.94          112.79             125.86
Gratuity asset [See note 38]                                                              1.03            12.92                –                   –
VAT refund receivable                                                                   30.83             39.78                –            129.66
GST credit/refund receivable                                                                  –              –           247.22             506.79
EV subsidy receivable                                                                         –              –           85.57                21.06
Export incentives receivable
   Unsecured considered good                                                                  –              –            71.26             306.31
   Doubtful                                                                                   –            0.21                –                   –
                                                                                              –            0.21           71.26             306.31
   Provision for doubtful export incentives                                                   –            0.21                –                   –
                                                                                              –              –            71.26             306.31
                                                                                        107.12           351.80         516.84            1,089.68


9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                              2023                2022



Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 35.42 crore (previous year H 31.13 crore))                          664.48              591.72
Work-in-progress                                                                                                          78.13               70.11
Finished goods                                                                                                          631.88              541.79
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                      21.85                25.67
Loose tools                                                                                                                  1.56              1.22
                                                                                                                       1,397.90           1,230.51

Amount recognised in profit and loss
Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 52.20 crore
[Previous year – H 6.74 crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the Statement of Profit and Loss.




148     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone                                                        Changes                                                 Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss     in Equity           Cash Flows           Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)

                                                                                             Non-current                              Current
                                                                                             As at 31 March                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                  2023             2022               2023                2022



Unsecured, considered good                                                                       –                –            1,776.12           1,516.38
Receivables which have significant increase in credit risk                                   43.20            39.66                    –                   –
                                                                                             43.20            39.66            1,776.12           1,516.38
Allowance for bad and doubtful receivable [See note 33(A)]                                   43.20            39.66                    –                   –
                                                                                                 –                –            1,776.12           1,516.38
                                                                                                 –                –            1,776.12           1,516.38


                                                                             Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                Less than      6 months                                       More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2023                             6 months         - 1 year 1 - 2 years         2 -3 years        3 years              Total



 i) Undisputed trade receivables – considered good                1,761.41          12.13             1.83            0.15             0.60        1,776.12
 ii) Undisputed trade receivables – which have significant
     increase in credit risk                                         8.23            3.28             1.78            0.63             2.96           16.88
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                       –                –               –              –                   –              –
iv) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant
    increase in credit risk                                             –             0.13            0.78            2.54            22.87           26.32
                                                                  1,769.64          15.54             4.39            3.32            26.43       1,819.32


                                                                             Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                Less than      6 months                                       More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                             6 months         - 1 year 1 - 2 years         2 -3 years        3 years              Total



 i) Undisputed trade receivables – considered good               1,484.52           19.45            11.83            0.02             0.56       1,516.38
 ii) Undisputed trade receivables – which have significant
     increase in credit risk                                         4.29            0.27             1.86            0.36             2.68            9.46
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                       –                –               –              –                   –              –
iv) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant
    increase in credit risk                                          0.33            0.83             5.27            4.75            19.02           30.20
                                                                  1,489.14          20.55            18.96            5.13            22.26       1,556.04


11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                      2023                2022



Balances with banks                                                                                                             219.38              563.92
Cash on hand                                                                                                                         0.04              0.05
                                                                                                                                219.42              563.97




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited             149
                     Standalone                                                                  Changes                                               Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials        Audit Report     Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss     in Equity            Cash Flows         Notes         Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

                                                                                                         Non-current                             Current
                                                                                                        As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                              2023              2022               2023               2022



Unclaimed dividend and unspent CSR accounts                                                                   –                  –            66.33              24.37
Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months                                               0.02               0.02                  –                     –
Deposits with residual maturity for less than twelve months                                                   –                  –                 –                     –
                                                                                                          0.02               0.02             66.33              24.37
Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' [See note 7]                                             (0.02)            (0.02)                  –                     –
                                                                                                              –                  –            66.33              24.37



13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                              As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                   2023               2022



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                                      300.00             300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
282,957,358 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                                       282.96            289.37
                                                                                                                                             282.96            289.37

a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year

                                                                                                    As at 31 March 2023                  As at 31 March 2022
Particulars                                                                                               Nos.        D In Crore               Nos.        D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                                     289,367,020              289.37       289,367,020             289.37
Issued/(bought back) during the year*                                                             (6,409,662)               (6.41)                 –                     –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                                               282,957,358              282.96       289,367,020             289.37

* The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 27 June 2022 approved a proposal to buyback fully paid up equity shares of the Company having a face value of H 10
each from the existing shareholders (except promoters, promoter group and persons in control of the Company) from open market through stock market mechanism (i.e.
through National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. and BSE Ltd.) at a maximum buyback price not exceeding H 4,600 per equity share and maximum buyback size up to
H 2,500 crore.
In this regard, the Company bought back 6,409,662 number of equity shares from the stock exchange at a volume weighted average buyback price of H 3,900.31 per share
comprising 2.22% of the pre-buyback number of shares of the Company. The buyback resulted in a cash outflow of H 2,499.97 crore (excluding transaction cost and tax on
buyback). An amount of H 582.39 crore was paid towards tax on buyback. In accordance with relevant statutory provisions, the Company has created a capital redemption
reserve of H 6.41 crore, equal to the nominal value of shares bought back, as an appropriation from retained earnings.
The Buyback Committee of the Company, at its meeting held on 10 October 2022, approved the completion and closure of the buyback.


b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one
vote per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors and
approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the
holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.




150      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                          16th Annual Report 2022-23
                     Standalone                                                                  Changes                                             Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials       Audit Report      Balance Sheet       Profit and Loss      in Equity           Cash Flows         Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
13 Equity share capital (Contd.)
c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company

                                                                                                   As at 31 March 2023                  As at 31 March 2022
Particulars                                                                                              Nos.        % Holding                Nos.        % Holding



Equity shares of J 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                  96,727,050             34.18%        96,727,050             33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                                           26,281,400              9.29%        26,281,400              9.08%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                                               15,214,187              5.38%        20,757,508               7.17%

d. Shareholding of promoters

                                                                                                                                                          % change
                                                                                                                                        % of total       during the
Promoter name                                                                                                    No. of shares            shares              year*



For 2022-23
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                              6,020             0.00%             0.00%
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                            200,000              0.07%             0.00%
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                              42,622              0.02%             0.00%
Rajiv Bajaj                                                                                                             754,200              0.27%             0.01%
Sanjiv Bajaj**                                                                                                          327,224              0.12%             0.00%
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                     96,727,050            34.18%              0.75%
* No changes in the number of shares held by the Promoters; However, percentages of holdings have changed pursuant to reduced capital on account of buyback of
6,409,662 equity shares of the Company made during the year.
** Sanjiv Bajaj also holds 1,048,796 shares as Executor for the Estate of Late Shri Rahul Bajaj


                                                                                                                                                          % change
                                                                                                                                        % of total       during the
Promoter name                                                                                                    No. of shares            shares              year



For 2021-22
Rahulkumar Bajaj*                                                                                                               –            0.00%            (0.36%)
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                              6,020             0.00%                      –
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                            200,000              0.07%            (0.24%)
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                              42,622              0.01%                      –
Rajiv Bajaj**                                                                                                           754,200              0.26%             0.26%
Sanjiv Bajaj**                                                                                                          327,224              0.11%              0.11%
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                     96,727,050            33.43%                       –
* Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj, one of the promoters of Bajaj Auto Ltd. expired on 12 February 2022. Shares held by Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj in individual capacity, and
previously shown as part of holdings of Promoters, are in the process of transmission. As per regulation 31A (6) of SEBI LODR Regulations, Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj
automatically ceases to be a promoter and his holdings would hereafter be shown under ‘Promoter Group - (Estate of Rahulkumar Bajaj)’ category until his shares are
transmitted to the respective legal heirs, who would all be Promoters/Promoter Group.
** Shri Rajiv Rahulkumar Bajaj and Shri Sanjiv Rahulkumar Bajaj, sons of Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj have now succeeded as Promoters and their holdings which earlier
were shown under ‘Promoter Group’ category have got transferred to ‘Promoter’ Category.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited          151
                      Standalone                                                     Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows      Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
14 Other equity
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2023                2022



Reserves and surplus:
General reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                            6,389.60           5,887.60
Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                                                              –            502.00
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                  6,389.60           6,389.60


Retained earnings
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                           19,340.40          18,861.25
Profit for the year                                                                                                5,627.60           5,018.87
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                                 (1.58)              13.42
Less: Appropriations
    Transfer to General reserve                                                                                            –            502.00
    Share buyback and tax thereon                                                                                  3,087.47                    –
    Recognition of capital redemption reserve                                                                            6.41                  –
    Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2022/2021                                                           4,051.14           4,051.14
    Total appropriations                                                                                           7,145.02           4,553.14


Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                 17,821.40          19,340.40


Other reserves:
Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 33]                                                                                    –             54.33
Costs of hedging reserve [See note 33]                                                                                     –               5.93


FVTOCI reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                             626.41               88.43
Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                                                      300.72              537.98
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                    927.13             626.41


Capital redemption reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                    –                   –
Add: Recognised during the year                                                                                          6.41                  –
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                        6.41                  –


Share based payment reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                              32.27                16.91
Add: Recognised during the year                                                                                       29.82               15.36
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                    62.09                32.27


Treasury shares
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                              (69.51)            (32.14)
Add: Changes during the year                                                                                             5.78           (37.37)
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                   (63.73)              (69.51)


                                                                                                                  25,142.90          26,379.43



152      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
                     Standalone                                                                     Changes                                              Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials         Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity            Cash Flows         Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
14 Other equity (Contd.)

Nature and purpose of reserve:

General reserve

General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the
Companies Act, 2013. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Retained earnings

Retained earnings is a free reserve. This is the accumulated profit earned by the Company till date, less transfer to general reserve,
dividend and other distributions made to the shareholders.

Cash flow hedging reserve and Costs of hedging reserve

It represents the effective portion of the fair value of forward/option contracts designated as cashflow hedge.

FVTOCI reserve

The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive
income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity.

Capital redemption reserve

As per section 69 of the Companies Act 2013, where a company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium
account, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to the capital redemption reserve account.
The capital redemption reserve account may be applied by the company, in paying up unissued shares of the company to be issued to
members of the company as fully paid bonus shares.

Share based payment reserve

Share based payment reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 ‘Share Based Payments’ on the employee stock option scheme
operated by the Company for its employees.

Treasury shares

The reserve for shares of the Company held by the Bajaj Auto ESOP Trust (ESOP Trust). Company has issued employees stock option
scheme for its employees. The equity shares of the Company have been purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to transfer in the
name of employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.


15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                 As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                       2023               2022



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                124.23               122.77
                                                                                                                                                124.23               122.77

The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available
for pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. Also see note 33.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                               Bajaj Auto Limited            153
                   Standalone                                                     Changes                                          Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows       Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)

                                                                                        Non-current                          Current
                                                                                        As at 31 March                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                             2023             2022           2023                2022



Provision for employee benefits [See note 38]
Provision for compensated absences                                                            –             –          134.65              127.56
Provision for welfare scheme                                                              0.87            1.30              0.49              0.56
                                                                                          0.87            1.30          135.14              128.12
Other provisions
Provision for warranties                                                                      –             –           30.81                25.63
                                                                                          0.87            1.30          165.95             153.75

Provision for warranties
Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of vehicles sold which are still under warranty at the end of the reporting
period. These claims are expected to be settled in the next financial year. Management estimates the provision based on historical
warranty claim information; and any recent trends that may suggest future claims could differ from historical amounts.
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2023                2022



At the beginning of the year                                                                                            25.63                22.04
Arising during the year                                                                                                 36.22                24.41
Utilised during the year                                                                                                 31.04               20.82
At the end of the year                                                                                                  30.81                25.63



17 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2023                2022



Deferred tax liabilities
On account of timing difference in
    Property, plant and equipment                                                                                       149.60             116.03


Employee benefits:
    Defined benefit plans provisions - P&L                                                                                  9.67             15.65
    Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                                                                  0.42              0.41


Financial instruments:
    Mutual funds including fixed maturity plans, ETFs                                                                  152.30               247.12
    Fair valuation of derivative hedging contracts                                                                            –              20.27
    Financial assets at FVTOCI                                                                                          117.17               80.75
                                                                                                                        269.47             348.14
Gross deferred tax liabilities                                                                                          429.16             480.23


154     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone                                                       Changes                                      Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss    in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
17 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2023                2022



Deferred tax assets
On account of timing difference in
Employee benefits:
   Welfare scheme costs and others                                                                                        0.34              0.47
   Bonus provisions                                                                                                       1.72              1.72
   Provision for privilege leave etc.                                                                                 33.89                32.10
   Defined benefit plans provisions - OCI                                                                             14.21                13.67
                                                                                                                      50.16                47.96
Financial instruments:
   Amortisation of discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                                     9.86              4.82
                                                                                                                          9.86              4.82
Other items:
   Provision for bad/doubtful debts and advances                                                                      11.89                12.02
   Taxes, duties, others etc.                                                                                         12.10                12.10
                                                                                                                      23.99                24.12
Gross deferred tax assets                                                                                             84.01                76.90
                                                                                                                     345.15              403.33

Movement in deferred tax liabilities (net):
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                   Property,
                                                                   plant and          Financial    Employee          Other
Particulars                                                       equipment        instruments      benefits         items                Total



At 31 March 2021                                                        125.36           452.66       (30.63)        (25.25)             522.14
Charged/(credited)
   –   to profit and loss                                                (9.33)         (166.66)       (5.79)             1.13          (180.65)
   –   to other comprehensive income                                         –             57.32        4.52                –              61.84
At 31 March 2022                                                        116.03           343.32       (31.90)        (24.12)             403.33
Charged/(credited)
   –   to profit and loss                                                33.57           (99.86)       (7.64)             0.15           (73.78)
   –   to other comprehensive income                                         –             16.15       (0.53)         (0.02)               15.60
At 31 March 2023                                                        149.60           259.61       (40.07)        (23.99)             345.15



18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2023                2022



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                              0.19              0.30
                                                                                                                          0.19              0.30



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                      Bajaj Auto Limited          155
                      Standalone                                                                    Changes                                           Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials         Audit Report       Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss    in Equity          Cash Flows         Notes       Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
19 Trade payables
                                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                             As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                   2023             2022



Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                                                            269.41           150.64
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                                                     3,804.47         3,482.54
                                                                                                                                           4,073.88         3,633.18

                                                                                                   Due - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                                   Less than         1-2          2-3      More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2023                                   Unbilled       Not due          1 year       years        years        3 years           Total



(i) Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)                           –         269.41               –            –            –               –       269.41
(ii) Others                                                             935.18       2,439.57         424.35          2.81         0.47           2.09      3,804.47
(iii) Disputed dues - MSME                                                   –              –               –            –            –               –               –
(iv) Disputed dues - Others                                                  –              –               –            –            –               –               –
                                                                        935.18       2,708.98         424.35          2.81         0.47           2.09      4,073.88

                                                                                                   Due - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                                   Less than         1-2          2-3      More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                                   Unbilled       Not due          1 year       years        years        3 years           Total



i.   Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)                          –         150.64               –            –            –               –       150.64
ii. Others                                                              830.51       2,321.70         323.18          3.11         0.69           3.35      3,482.54
iii. Disputed dues - MSME                                                    –              –               –            –            –               –               –
iv. Disputed dues - Others                                                   –              –               –            –            –               –               –
                                                                        830.51       2,472.34         323.18          3.11         0.69           3.35      3,633.18


20 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                             As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                   2023             2022



Security deposits                                                                                                                             27.25             27.11
Unclaimed dividend                                                                                                                            28.55             24.37
Directors' remuneration and commission payable [see note 39]                                                                                  32.02             17.57
Employee benefits payable                                                                                                                    155.79           192.77
Other payables                                                                                                                               203.31            135.18
                                                                                                                                             446.92           397.00
Refer note 32 for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.




156       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
                     Standalone                                                                   Changes                                                Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials        Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss     in Equity            Cash Flows         Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
21 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                               As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                    2023                  2022


Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                                                      0.06                0.27
Advance received from customers                                                                                                               234.84             301.92
Taxes and duties payable                                                                                                                      111.29                 97.22
Other payables                                                                                                                                138.71                 79.30
                                                                                                                                              484.90             478.71


22 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                    2023                  2022


Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products*                                                                                                                          35,359.15          32,135.98


Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                                                     28.74                29.25
Export incentives                                                                                                                             469.33             551.27
PSI                                                                                                                                            45.04                 30.50
Royalty                                                                                                                                       231.95             174.58
Technical know how fees                                                                                                                              –                2.65
Rent [See note 40]                                                                                                                              40.17                26.67
Insurance claims                                                                                                                                  1.19                0.49
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                                                        158.57                 91.86
Government grants                                                                                                                                 2.65                2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                                               90.81                 98.81
                                                                                                                                            1,068.45           1,008.73
                                                                                                                                          36,427.60           33,144.71
* This includes Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME)-II subsidy receivable on sale of eligible products from Central and State Government
  amounting to H 157.83 crore (31 March 2022: H 35.24 crore).

Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                                                      20,901.08          15,201.89
Outside India                                                                                                                             14,458.07           16,934.09
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                                                35,359.15          32,135.98


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                                           35,676.86           32,407.71
Adjustments:
      Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                                                  (309.62)            (242.90)
      Sales promotion expenses                                                                                                                 (8.09)            (28.83)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                                                      35,359.15          32,135.98




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                             Bajaj Auto Limited             157
                   Standalone                                                      Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials    Audit Report    Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows      Notes         Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
23 Other income
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                         2023              2022



Investment income
Interest income on fixed income securities                                                                         306.99            275.05
Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                        (2.00)            (17.67)
Interest income on fixed deposits                                                                                    61.05             36.42
Interest income on exchange traded funds                                                                           344.56            204.68
Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                                             39.55            388.93
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                                            750.15            887.41


Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                                       47.25             45.50


Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                                                174.53            224.47
Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                                                 –                  –
                                                                                                                   971.93           1,157.38
Others
Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                                   111.56              21.59
Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                                       97.93             30.27
                                                                                                                   209.49              51.86


                                                                                                                  1,181.42         1,209.24


24 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March

                                                                                                                               (Increase)/
Particulars                                                                                        2023             2022         decrease



Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress                                                                                   78.13             70.11             (8.02)
Finished goods                                                                                    631.88           541.79            (90.09)
                                                                                                  710.01            611.90            (98.11)
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress                                                                                   70.11            85.50              15.39
Finished goods                                                                                    541.79           714.36            172.57
                                                                                                  611.90           799.86             187.96
                                                                                                  (98.11)           187.96




158      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                 16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone                                                      Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows     Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
25 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                            For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2023                2022



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees [See note 39]                                                            1,246.16           1,170.31
Contribution to provident and other funds [See note 38 and 39]                                                    88.37                92.03
Share based payment to employees                                                                                  29.82                15.36
Staff welfare expenses                                                                                            80.55                81.10
                                                                                                               1,444.90            1,358.80


26 Finance costs
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                            For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2023                2022



Interest expense                                                                                                  38.02                 7.35
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                                               1.46              1.31
                                                                                                                  39.48                 8.66


27 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                            For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2023                2022



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                                    248.99              244.04
Depreciation on investment property                                                                                   1.12               1.17
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                                                30.35                21.98
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                                        1.98              1.98
                                                                                                                 282.44               269.17




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited          159
                   Standalone                                                      Changes                                           Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity          Cash Flows      Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
28 Other expenses
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                2023               2022



Stores and tools consumed                                                                                                 153.55             132.43
Power, fuel and water                                                                                                     122.51             108.01
Rent                                                                                                                       13.60               15.58
Repairs to buildings                                                                                                        47.11              38.42
Repairs to machinery                                                                                                      105.23             105.59
Other repairs                                                                                                              20.49               17.62
Insurance                                                                                                                   12.15              11.03
Rates and taxes                                                                                                            13.49               17.50
Payment to auditor                                                                                                            1.87              2.01
Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                                       1.05              0.93
Commission to non-executive directors                                                                                         2.58              2.28
Travelling expenses                                                                                                        45.03               12.24
Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                                    554.51             488.14
Packing material consumed                                                                                                 409.32             542.22
Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                                           194.18             269.84
Advertisement                                                                                                             359.85             168.06
Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                                                164.74             103.39
Sales promotion expenses                                                                                                   30.50               43.01
Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                                               5.00                  –
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                                      124.99             128.00
Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                                                  5.98              0.02
Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                                              14.11               8.88
Provision for doubtful debts and advances, net (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)                           4.79            (4.44)
                                                                                                                        2,406.63           2,210.76

Payment to auditor
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                2023               2022



As auditor
   Audit fee                                                                                                                  1.04              1.04
   Tax audit fee                                                                                                              0.10              0.10
   Limited review                                                                                                             0.66              0.66
   Other services (certification fees)                                                                                        0.02              0.20
Reimbursement of expenses                                                                                                     0.05              0.01
                                                                                                                              1.87              2.01




160     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                         16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone                                                                     Changes                                                 Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials      Audit Report       Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss        in Equity               Cash Flows     Notes            Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                      2023                  2022



a) Detail of spends
    i)   Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year                                                                       124.99               128.00
    ii) Amount of expenditure incurred                                                                                                          124.99               128.00
    iii) Shortfall at the end of the year                                                                                                               –                   –
    iv) Total of previous years shortfall                                                                                                               –                   –
    v) Reason for shortfall                                                                                                                            NA                 NA
    vi) Nature of CSR activities
              Poverty, Health, Sanitation, Water                                                                                                      7.24             35.58
              Education, Special Education, Vocation, Livelihoods                                                                                    22.93             22.31
              Environment, Soil And Water, Protection of Flora and fauna                                                                              9.88              8.58
              Heritage, Art, Culture, Handicrafts, Public Libraries                                                                                   0.23              0.28
              Veterans, War Widows, Dependents                                                                                                           -              1.00
              Rural Development                                                                                                                       4.79              4.38
              Gender/Women, Orphans, Homes and Hostels, Day Care                                                                                      1.90               3.18
              Others (including provision for unspent)                                                                                           78.02                 52.69
              Total                                                                                                                             124.99               128.00
              No funds relating to other than identified and ongoing projects are required to be transferred to
              specified funds.


b) Amount spent in cash during the year on:
    i)   Construction/acquisition of any asset                                                                                                          –                   –
    ii) On purposes other than (i) above                                                                                                        124.99               128.00
                                                                                                                                                124.99               128.00
Details of ongoing projects
            Opening balance                   Amount                        Amount spent during the year                                     Closing balance
                                             required
                        In separate CSR          to be    From Company's      From separate CSR            Amount transferred to                       In separate CSR unspent
      With Company      unspent account         spent        bank account        unspent account            CSR unspent account       With Company                     account



                 –                   –         124.99               52.57                   13.22                          51.00             72.42                       37.78



29 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                      2023                 2022



PSI Scheme                                                                                                                                              –           (315.28)
                                                                                                                                                        –           (315.28)
This is amount receivable from State Government of Maharashtra under Package Scheme of Incentive 2007 (PSI), for the period April 2015 to March 2021.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited            161
                    Standalone                                                         Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials    Audit Report    Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows      Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
30 Tax expense
                                                                                                                                       (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2023               2022



(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                                                  1,854.82            1,667.11


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                                              (6.57)              (2.28)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                                        (67.21)           (178.37)
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)                                                                                   (73.78)           (180.65)


Tax expenses                                                                                                         1,781.04           1,486.46


(b) Reconciliation of tax expenses and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                                    7,408.64           6,505.33
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year - 25.168%)                                                      1,864.61           1,637.26
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure and contribution to electoral bonds                                 32.72               32.22
    –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                                      (3.78)             (4.68)
    –   Others                                                                                                             7.50              3.87


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                                      (11.89)            (11.45)
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                                              (40.97)           (109.48)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                                     (67.24)            (60.51)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                                                      0.09             (0.77)
Tax expense                                                                                                          1,781.04           1,486.46


31 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2023               2022



a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                                  5,627.60           5,018.87
    Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                           285,418,164       289,367,020
    Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)                             211,530            221,458
    Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                      285,206,634        289,145,562
b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                              197.3              173.6
    Face value per share H                                                                                                 10.0              10.0




162     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                     Standalone                                                         Changes                                      Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials   Audit Report   Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
32 Fair value measurement
i)   Financial instruments by category
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)

                                                                     31 March 2023                                   31 March 2022
                                                                                        Amortised                                       Amortised
Particulars                                             FVTPL               FVTOCI           Cost         FVTPL           FVTOCI             Cost



Financial assets
Investments
     –   Equity                                                  –        2,275.02                  –           –         1,898.08                  –
     –   Bonds and debentures                                    –                –        3,552.98             –               –          3,834.66
     –   Government bonds and securities                         –                –          845.85             –               –            857.47
     –   Certificate of Deposit                                  –                –         1,143.41            –               –                   –
     –   Exchange traded funds                                   –                –        6,900.37             –               –          5,515.81
     –   Fixed maturity plans                                    –                –          800.02             –               –          4,658.76
     –   Fixed deposits                                          –                –        1,400.00             –               –          1,115.00
     –   Short-term funds                              4,219.25                   –                 –    3,089.61               –                   –
     –   Long duration bond funds                                –                –                 –      786.39               –                   –
     –   Liquid mutual funds                                     –                –                 –      814.55               –                   –
Trade receivables                                                –                –         1,776.12            –               –          1,516.38
Loans                                                            –                –             5.90            –               –               8.74
Other financial assets                                           –                –          504.39             –               –             577.12
Cash and cash equivalents                                        –                –          219.42             –               –            563.97
Other bank balances                                              –                –           66.33             –               –              24.37
Derivative financial assets                                      –                –                 –           –           80.53                   –
                                                       4,219.25           2,275.02        17,214.79      4,690.55         1,978.61        18,672.28


Financial liabilities
Sales tax deferral                                               –                –          124.23             –               –            122.77
Trade payables                                                   –                –        4,073.88             –               –          3,633.18
Other financial liabilities                                      –                –          446.92             –               –            397.00
Derivative financial liability                                   –                –                 –           –               –                   –
                                                                 –                –        4,645.03             –               –          4,152.95




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited        163
                    Standalone                                                    Changes                                      Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials   Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
32 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy

   This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are
   (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the
   financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Company has
   classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level
   follows underneath the table.

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements At 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                        Notes              Level 1       Level 2          Level 3             Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
Short-term funds                                                     5               4,219.25             –               –          4,219.25
Long duration bond funds                                             5                        –           –               –                   –
Liquid mutual funds                                                  5                        –           –               –                   –
Financial investments at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
   Option contracts                                                  7                        –           –               –                   –
Equity investment                                                    5               2,072.04        202.98               –          2,275.02
                                                                                     6,291.29        202.98               –          6,494.27

Assets disclosed at fair value - At 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                        Notes              Level 1       Level 2          Level 3             Total



Investment property                                                  3                        –      223.09               –            223.09

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements At 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                        Notes              Level 1       Level 2         Level 3             Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
Short-term funds                                                     5               3,089.61             –               –          3,089.61
Long duration bond funds                                             5                 786.39             –               –            786.39
Liquid mutual funds                                                  5                 814.55             –               –            814.55
Financial investments at FVTOCI
Derivatives designated as hedges
   Option contracts                                                  7                        –       80.53               –              80.53
Equity investment                                                    5               1,753.87             –          144.21          1,898.08
                                                                                     6,444.42         80.53          144.21          6,669.16




164     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone                                                                      Changes                                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials         Audit Report      Balance Sheet         Profit and Loss      in Equity             Cash Flows          Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
32 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy (Contd.)
Assets disclosed at fair value - At 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                                          Notes                 Level 1             Level 2             Level 3               Total



Investment property                                                                     3                           –           223.03                     –            223.03


Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets. Quotes would include
rates/values/valuation references published periodically by BSE, NSE etc. basis which trades take place in a linked or unlinked active
market. This includes traded bonds and mutual funds, as the case may be, that have quoted price/rate/value.

Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market are determined using valuation techniques
which maximise the use of observable market data (either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices) and rely as little as
possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is
included in level 2

Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is
the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.

Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value

Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value include

• Open ended mutual funds at NAV’s/rates declared and/or quoted
• Derivative Instruments at values determined by counter parties/Banks using market observable data.
iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             31 March 2023                          31 March 2022
                                                                                                          Carrying                               Carrying
Particulars                                                                                                Amount           Fair value            Amount           Fair value



Financial assets
Investments
Bonds and debentures                                                                                       3,552.98           3,458.40            3,834.66            3,797.62
Government bonds and securities                                                                              845.85              811.01             857.47              838.71
Exchange traded funds                                                                                      6,900.37            6,710.97           5,515.81           5,482.98
Fixed maturity plans                                                                                         800.02             778.99            4,658.76           4,636.65
                                                                                                         12,099.22           11,759.37          14,866.70           14,755.96
The carrying amounts of certificate of deposits, fixed deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, other financial assets/liabilities, loans and cash and cash equivalents are
considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited             165
                 Standalone                                                         Changes                                     Consolidated
Non-Financials   Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss     in Equity        Cash Flows      Notes      Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management
The Company’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including foreign exchange risk). In order to minimise
any adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company, derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward
contracts and foreign currency option contracts are entered to hedge certain foreign currency risk exposures. Derivatives are used
exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or speculative instruments.

This note explains the sources of risk which the Company is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the impact of hedge
accounting in the financial statements.

Risk              Exposure arising from                         Measurement            Management



                  Cash and cash equivalents, financial assets Credit ratings           Diversification of counterparties, diversification of
                  measured at amortised cost and fair value                            investment limits, monitoring of counterparties basis
                  through profit or loss                                               credit rating
Credit Risk
                  Derivative financial instruments              Credit ratings         Deal with reputed banks holding high credit risk rating
                  Trade receivables                             Credit limit and       No. of overdue days, monitoring of credit limits
                                                                ageing analysis
Liquidity Risk    Other liabilities                             Maturity analysis      Maintaining sufficient cash/cash equivalents and
                                                                                       marketable securities
Market Risk-      Highly probable forecast transactions and     Sensitivity analysis Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign
Foreign           financial assets and liabilities not                               currency options
Exchange          denominated in INR

The Board of Directors provide guiding principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as
foreign exchange risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of
available funds. The Company’s risk management is carried out by a treasury department as per such policies approved by the Board
of Directors. Accordingly, Company’s treasury department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.

A) Credit risk

Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty may default on its contractual obligations leading to a financial loss to the Company.
Credit risk primarily arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, financial assets measured at amortised
cost, financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and trade receivables. None of the financial instruments of the
Company result in material concentration of credit risk.

Credit risk management

For Derivative instruments exposures are extended with multiple banks holding high credit risk ratings.

In regard to Trade receivables, which are typically unsecured, credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing
credit limits and continuously monitoring the credit worthiness of customers to whom credit is extended in the normal course
of business. The Company follows a ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables.
Accordingly, impairment loss allowance is recognised based on lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date, right from
its initial recognition. The provision rates are based on days past due; and the calculation reflects the probability weighted outcome,
the time value of money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events,
current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.




166     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone                                                     Changes                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity    Cash Flows     Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure of the Company’s trade receivables using provision matrix:
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As on 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                        2023               2022



Estimated total gross carrying amount                                                                            1,819.32         1,556.04
ECL                                                                                                                43.20              39.66
Net carrying amount                                                                                              1,776.12           1,516.38
Reconciliation of impairment allowance – Trade receivable
Particulars                                                                                                                   (J In Crore)



Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2021                                                                                              44.10
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                             (4.44)
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2022                                                                                              39.66
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                              3.54
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2023                                                                                              43.20

For other financial assets, the Company has an investment policy which allows the Company to invest only with counterparties
having a credit rating equal to or above AA+ and A1+. The Company reviews the creditworthiness of these counterparties on an
on-going basis. Counter party limits maybe updated as and when required, subject to approval of Board of Directors.

B) Liquidity risk

The Company’s principal source of liquidity are ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and cash flows that are generated from operations.
The Company believes that its working capital is sufficient to meet the financial liabilities within maturity period. The Company has
no outstanding term borrowings except sales tax deferral liability amounting to H 124.23 crore which are interest free and are
repayable after 10 years from the Balance Sheet date. Additionally, the Company has invested its surplus funds in fixed income
securities or instruments of similar profile thereby ensuring safety of capital and availability of liquidity as and when required.
Hence the Company carries a negligible liquidity risk.
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                        2023               2022



The Company had
Net working capital funds                                                                                       3,672.37          5,305.03
which includes;
      i)   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                              219.42             563.97
      ii) Current investments                                                                                    4,419.37           4,969.13




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited        167
                    Standalone                                                     Changes                                     Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity    Cash Flows         Notes       Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The table below summarises the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2022:
Maturities of financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                    Less than
                                                                                                    and equal       More than
Particulars                                                                                          to 1 year         1 year           Total



As on 31 March 2023
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                                –           124.23      124.23
Trade payables                                                                                        4,073.88                 –     4,073.88
Other financial liabilities                                                                             446.92                 –       446.92
                                                                                                      4,520.80             124.23    4,645.03


As on 31 March 2022
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                                –           122.77      122.77
Trade payables                                                                                        3,633.18                 –     3,633.18
Other financial liabilities                                                                             397.00                 –       397.00
                                                                                                      4,030.18             122.77    4,152.95


C) Market risk

(i) Foreign currency risk

The Company has significant exports and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions,
primarily with respect to the USD. Foreign exchange risk arises from highly probable forecast transactions and recognised assets
and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Company’s functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through sensitivity
analysis. The primary objective for forex hedging against anticipated foreign currency risks will be to hedge the Company's highly
probable foreign currency cash flows arising from such transactions (thus reducing volatility of cash flow and profit).

The Company’s risk management policy permits the use of plain foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency option
contracts including Foreign Currency - INR Option Cost Reduction Structures to hedge forecasted sales.

The Company also imports certain materials the value of which is not material as compared to value of exports. Currently, Company
does not hedge this exposure. Nevertheless, Company may wish to hedge such exposures.

The Company uses a combination of foreign currency option contracts and foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its exposure
in foreign currency risk. The Company designates forward contracts in entirety and intrinsic value of foreign currency option
contracts as the hedging instrument. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument
is recognised through other comprehensive income in the ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The change in time value that
relate to the hedged item (aligned time value) is recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’
within equity. Amount recognised in equity is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item (i.e. forecasted export sales) affects
Statement of Profit and Loss. The ineffective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument and any residual time value
(the non-aligned portion), if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss immediately.

The intrinsic value of foreign exchange option contracts is determined with reference to the relevant spot market exchange rate.
The differential between the contracted strike rate and the spot market exchange rate is defined as the intrinsic value. Time value of
the option is the difference between fair value of the option and the intrinsic value.




168      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone                                                        Changes                                         Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows     Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The fair values (Marked-to-market/MTM) of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as on 31 March 2023 and
31 March 2022 are as follows:
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)

                                                                                    As at 31 March 2023             As at 31 March 2022
                                                                                 Notional In        MTM Gain/   Notional In            MTM Gain/
For export transactions:                                                       USD Mn (Sell)           (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)               (Loss)



Foreign currency derivative designated as hedging instruments –
options contracts                                                                               –           –         1,326.00                80.53
                                                                                                –           –         1,326.00                80.53
For import transactions: NIL
Open exposure

The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as follows
                                                                                                                                       (USD Million)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March

                                                                                                                         2023                2022



Receivables                                                                                                              70.26                94.68
Payables                                                                                                                     7.03              8.05
Others (EEFC balances)                                                                                                       3.98            64.50


Sensitivity analysis

The following table demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant. The impact on other components of equity arises from the changes in fair value of the foreign exchange option contracts
designated as cash flow hedges.
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March

Impact on other components of equity                                                                                     2023                2022


USD Sensitivity
INR/USD Increase by 5% (Previous year 5%)                                                                                      –           (185.07)
INR/USD Decrease by 5% (Previous year 5%)                                                                                      –            329.99

Maturity of outstanding contracts

The details in respect of the maturity of outstanding foreign exchange option contracts are given below
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)

                                                                                    As at 31 March 2023             As at 31 March 2022
                                                                                 Notional In        MTM Gain/   Notional In            MTM Gain/
On export transactions:                                                        USD Mn (Sell)           (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)               (Loss)


Not later than three months                                                                     –           –          331.50                 23.05
Later than three months and not later than six months                                           –           –          331.50                 24.94
Later than six months and not later than one year                                               –           –          663.00                 32.54
Later than one year and not later than two years                                                –           –                  –                   –
                                                                                                –           –         1,326.00                80.53
On import transactions: NIL




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited          169
                     Standalone                                                                    Changes                                             Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials        Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity            Cash Flows         Notes       Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Impact of hedging activities

(a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                               Carrying amount                          Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal          of hedging               Hedge           value of hedging         item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value            instrument               ratio*          instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                                   –                        –            N.A.                  (72.60)                                   72.60
                                                           –                        –                                  (72.60)                                   72.60

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                               Carrying amount                          Changes in fair          Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal          of hedging               Hedge           value of hedging         item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value            instrument               ratio*          instrument               recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                        10,050.09                     72.60               1:1                (126.38)                                  126.38
                                                10,050.09                     72.60                                  (126.38)                                  126.38
 * The foreign exchange option contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.


(b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance

Cash flow hedge 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                   Change in the value of                 Hedge                         Amount reclassified          Line item affected in
                                   the hedging instrument                 ineffectiveness               from cash flow               the Statement of Profit
                                   recognised in other                    recognised in profit          hedging reserve to           and Loss because of the
Particulars                        comprehensive income                   or loss                       profit or loss               reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                               (72.60)                             –                      (25.63)                           Revenue
                                                                (72.60)                             –                      (25.63)

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                   Change in the value of                 Hedge                         Amount reclassified          Line item affected in
                                   the hedging instrument                 ineffectiveness               from cash flow               the Statement of Profit
                                   recognised in other                    recognised in profit          hedging reserve to           and Loss because of the
Particulars                        comprehensive income                   or loss                       profit or loss               reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                              (126.38)                             –                       83.97                            Revenue
                                                               (126.38)                             –                       83.97




170      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                           16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone                                                      Changes                               Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows     Notes      Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
33 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The Company enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the
hedged item, so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. During the years ended 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2022,
the Company did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items.

Therefore, no ineffectiveness is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the years ended 31 March 2023 and
31 March 2022.

Movements in cash flow hedging reserve and costs of hedging reserve
                                                                                                                              (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      Foreign Currency
                                                                                                                          Risk Foreign
Derivative Instrument                                                                                                 exchange options



(i) Cash flow hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                    148.90
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                       (42.41)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                      (83.97)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                           31.81
Balance – As at 31 March 2022                                                                                                     54.33
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                       (98.23)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                        25.63
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                           18.27
Balance – As at 31 March 2023                                                                                                           –


(ii) Costs of hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                    (58.06)
Less: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                             86.61
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                        (1.09)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                         (21.53)
Balance – As at 31 March 2022                                                                                                       5.93
Add: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                            (21.48)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                        13.56
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                            1.99
Balance – As at 31 March 2023                                                                                                           –


(ii) Other risks

The Company has deployed its surplus funds into various financial instruments including units of mutual funds, bonds, fixed maturity
plans, exchange traded funds, index funds etc. The Company is exposed to price risk on such investments, which arises on account of
movement in interest rates, liquidity and credit quality of underlying securities.

The Company has invested its surplus funds primarily in debt based mutual funds and fixed maturity plans. The value of investment
in these mutual fund schemes is reflected though Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Management Company on daily basis.
The Company has not performed a sensitivity analysis on these mutual funds based on estimated fluctuations in their NAV as in
management’s opinion, such analysis would not display a correct picture.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited      171
                  Standalone                                                         Changes                                          Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet     Profit and Loss   in Equity          Cash Flows      Notes         Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
34 Capital management
a) Objectives, policies and processes of capital management

    The Company is cash surplus and has no capital other than Equity. The Company is not exposed to any regulatory imposed
    capital requirements.

    The cash surpluses are currently invested in income generating debt instruments (including through mutual funds) and money
    market instruments depending on economic conditions in line with the guidelines set out by the Management. Safety of capital is
    of prime importance to ensure availability of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate return
    on the surplus funds.

    The Company does not have any borrowings and does not borrow funds unless circumstances require.
                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                  2023              2022



Equity                                                                                                                   25,425.86        26,668.80
Less: Tangible and other assets                                                                                           3,249.53           2,514.14
		 Working capital (excl. investments)                                                                                     (747.00)           335.90
		 Investments in subsidiaries                                                                                            1,786.43          1,248.43
Investments in debt and similar investments                                                                              21,136.90        22,570.33

No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes of capital management during the year.

b) Dividends distributed and proposed
                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                  2023              2022



Dividends recognised in the financial statements
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2022 of H 140 (31 March 2021 - H 140) per equity share,
declared and paid                                                                                                         4,051.14           4,051.14
Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
Directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of H 140 per equity share
(31 March 2022 – H 140). This proposed dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders in the
ensuing annual general meeting.                                                                                           3,961.40           4,051.14




172      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                          16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone                                                       Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows     Notes      Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
35 Contingent liabilities
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2023                2022



a. Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts                                                             205.04               201.45
b. Excise, Service tax and Customs matters under dispute                                                             341.75              340.72
c. Income tax matters                                                                                                941.84              899.21
d. Value Added Tax (VAT)/Sales Tax matters under dispute                                                             126.62              142.00
e. Claims made by temporary workmen
   Pending before various judicial/appellate authorities in respect of similar matters adjudicated by the
   Supreme Court. The matter is contingent on the facts and evidence presented before the courts/                Liability         Liability
   adjudicating authorities and not necessarily likely to be influenced by the Supreme Court's order        unascertained     unascertained
In all the cases mentioned above, outflow is not probable and hence not provided by the Company.


36 Capital commitments
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2023                2022



Capital commitments, net of capital advances                                                                         169.55              589.55


37 Segment information

Segment information based on consolidated financial statements is given in note 43 to consolidated financial statements, which are
attached to these financial statements.

The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.

The business segments comprise the following:
i. Automotive
ii. Investments
iii. Others




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited         173
                   Standalone                                                         Changes                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials      Audit Report     Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows      Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits
Liability for employee benefits has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in conformity with the principles set
out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.
Funded schemes
Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity payments to employees. The gratuity benefit payable to the employees of the Company is greater
of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Company’s gratuity scheme. Employees who are in continuous service
for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to approved
gratuity fund.
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2023                2022



Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation (DBO)                                                             472.56              477.07
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                           (505.16)            (521.52)
Net funded obligation                                                                                                (32.60)            (44.45)
Amount not recognised due to asset ceiling                                                                             31.57               31.53
Net defined benefit liability/(asset) recognised in Balance Sheet                                                     (1.03)             (12.92)


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                                  26.48                28.73
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                      (2.75)              (2.81)
Total expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                 23.73               25.92


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                 54.34                71.95
Remeasurements during the period due to
    Changes in financial assumptions                                                                                   (6.30)            (14.50)
    Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                                      –            (15.75)
    Experience adjustments                                                                                             (1.51)              10.72
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                          12.20                3.76
    Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                               (2.25)               (1.84)
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                 56.48               54.34

                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                           2023                2022



Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                         (12.92)            (16.34)
    Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                    23.73               25.92
    Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                2.14            (17.61)
    Employer contributions                                                                                            (13.98)             (4.89)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                         (1.03)            (12.92)




174      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone                                                     Changes                                 Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials    Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows     Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2023              2022



Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                                            477.07            490.00
Current service cost                                                                                              26.48              28.73
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                                            30.57              30.25
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions                                            (6.30)           (14.50)
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in demographic assumptions                                              –            (15.75)
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience changes                                                (1.51)             10.72
Benefits paid                                                                                                    (53.75)           (52.38)
Closing of defined benefit obligation                                                                            472.56            477.07

                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2023              2022



Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                                                521.52            537.58
Employer contributions                                                                                            13.98               4.89
Interest on plan assets                                                                                           35.60              35.18
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                    (12.19)             (3.75)
Benefits paid                                                                                                    (53.75)           (52.38)
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                                                505.16            521.52

                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                       2023              2022



Disaggregation of assets
Category of assets
Insurer managed funds                                                                                            505.16            521.52
Others                                                                                                                –                   –
                                                                                                                 505.16            521.52




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        175
                    Standalone                                                    Changes                                     Consolidated
Non-Financials      Financials   Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
Sensitivity Analysis

Gratuity is a lump sum plan and the cost of providing these benefits is typically less sensitive to small changes in demographic
assumptions. The key actuarial assumptions to which the benefit obligation results are particularly sensitive to are discount rate and
future salary escalation rate. The following table summarises the impact in percentage terms on the reported defined benefit obligation
(DBO) at the end of the reporting period arising on account of an increase or decrease in the reported assumption by 50 basis points.

                                                                                    As at 31 March 2023           As at 31 March 2022
                                                                                                    Salary                          Salary
                                                                                    Discount     escalation       Discount       escalation
Particulars                                                                             rate           rate           rate             rate



Senior staff
   Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                (3.09%)        3.18%          (3.25%)          (3.34%)
   Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                  3.28%       (3.03%)         (3.44%)          (3.18%)
Junior staff
   Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                                 (3.21%)       3.40%          (3.10%)          (3.26%)
   Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                  3.50%       (3.16%)         (3.36%)          (3.04%)

These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in defined benefit obligation (DBO) in isolation and assuming there
are no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. There have been no changes from the previous periods in the
methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses.

Funding arrangement and policy

The money contributed by the Company to the fund to finance the liabilities of the plan has to be invested.

The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to insurance companies. The insurance companies
in turn manage these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is within the
permissible limits prescribed in the insurance regulations.

There is no compulsion on the part of the Company to fully pre fund the liability of the Plan. The Company’s philosophy is to fund the
benefits based on its own liquidity and tax position as well as level of under funding of the plan.

The expected contribution payable to the plan next year is H 50 crore




176     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone                                                                     Changes                                                 Consolidated
Non-Financials        Financials        Audit Report       Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity             Cash Flows         Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
Projected plan cash flow

The table below shows the expected cash flow profile of the benefits to be paid to the current membership of the plan:
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                    Less than           Between            Between                  Over
Particulars                                                                            a year         1 - 2 years         3 -5 years             5 years               Total



31 March 2023
Senior staff                                                                             34.64                8.40               75.13            205.78              323.95
Junior staff                                                                              88.13              43.43               86.98            400.94              619.48


31 March 2022
Senior staff                                                                              27.19              12.75               62.91            196.87              299.72
Junior staff                                                                              83.76              47.65             108.62             382.06              622.09


                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in years)                                                                                  2023               2022



Senior Staff                                                                                                                                          6.36               6.68
Junior Staff                                                                                                                                          6.70               6.45


                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Principal Actuarial Assumptions (Expressed as Weighted Averages)                                                                                    2023               2022



Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                                               7.45%               7.25%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account, inflation, seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand
and supply in the employment market.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited            177
                  Standalone                                                       Changes                                   Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows      Notes         Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund:
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                         2023              2022


Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                                               1,452.17           1,385.12
Fair Value of plan assets                                                                                       (1,476.49)        (1,451.09)
Net funded obligation                                                                                             (24.32)            (65.97)
Amount not recognised due to asset ceiling                                                                          24.32              65.97
Net defined benefit liability/(asset) recognised in Balance Sheet                                                       –                   –


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                                42.81              39.75
Total expenses charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                             42.81              39.75


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                   –                   –
Remeasurements during the period due to
    Experience adjustments                                                                                          21.67           (100.29)
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                       24.76             34.32
    Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                           (46.43)              65.97
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                   –                   –


Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                           –                   –
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                     42.81              39.75
Employer contributions                                                                                            (42.81)            (39.75)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                           –                   –


Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                                            1,385.12          1,444.48
Current service cost                                                                                                42.81              39.75
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                                              98.50              96.34
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience adjustments                                              21.67           (100.29)
Employee contributions                                                                                              80.26              76.06
Benefits paid                                                                                                     (173.18)          (173.35)
Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                                                       (3.01)               2.13
Closing defined benefit obligation                                                                               1,452.17          1,385.12




178     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone                                                       Changes                                 Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity   Cash Flows     Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund: (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                        2023               2022


Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                                                1,451.09         1,444.48
Interest on plan assets                                                                                           103.28              96.34
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                     (24.76)            (34.32)
Employer contributions during the period                                                                           42.81              39.75
Employee contributions during the period                                                                           80.26              76.06
Benefits paid                                                                                                    (173.18)           (173.35)
Assets acquired/(settled)                                                                                          (3.01)               2.13
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                                               1,476.49         1,451.09

                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            As at 31 March

Disaggregation of assets                                                                                                              2023



Quoted
Government debt instruments                                                                                                          944.31
Other debt instruments                                                                                                               435.53
Others                                                                                                                                28.88
Unquoted
Other debt instruments                                                                                                                66.01
Others                                                                                                                                  1.76
                                                                                                                                 1,476.49

                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Key actuarial assumptions                                                                                          2023               2022



Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                               7.45%              7.25%
Future derived return on assets (p.a.)                                                                             9.43%            10.02%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment (p.a.)                                          7.30%             6.55%
Average historic yield on the investment (p.a.)                                                                    9.28%             9.32%
Guaranteed rate of return (p.a.)                                                                                   8.15%              8.10%




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited        179
                   Standalone                                                          Changes                                         Consolidated
Non-Financials     Financials       Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss     in Equity      Cash Flows        Notes          Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Unfunded schemes
                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)

                                                                                     As at 31 March 2023               As at 31 March 2022
                                                                             Compensated             Welfare        Compensated              Welfare
Particulars                                                                     Absences             Scheme            Absences              Scheme


Present value of unfunded obligations                                                  134.65               1.36          127.56                  1.86
Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss                                  18.45               0.15           12.81                  0.21
Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income                                                              (0.03)                                (0.33)
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                    7.45%          7.45%               7.25%                7.25%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                           10.00%               N.A.          10.00%                  N.A.
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                           10.00%               N.A.          10.00%                  N.A.

Compensated absences

The compensated absences cover the Company’s liability for casual and earned leave.

Entire amount of the provision is presented as current, since the Company does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement
for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Company does not expect all employees to take the full amount
of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months. The following amounts reflect leave that is not expected to be taken
or paid within the next 12 months.
                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                 2023                2022



Compensated absences expected to be settled after twelve months                                                            105.31              101.09

                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                 2023                2022



Amount recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Defined contribution plans:
    Superannuation paid to trust                                                                                                8.38              8.25
    Pension fund paid to Government authorities                                                                             12.30                13.09
    Others                                                                                                                      0.68              4.72
Defined benefit plans:
    Gratuity                                                                                                                23.73                25.92
    Provident fund paid to trust                                                                                            42.81                39.75
    Others                                                                                                                      0.47              0.30
                                                                                                                            88.37               92.03




180      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                          16th Annual Report 2022-23
                         Standalone                                                                                    Changes                                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials           Financials            Audit Report        Balance Sheet            Profit and Loss            in Equity            Cash Flows               Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
39 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                           2022–23                               2021–22
                                                                                                                                                    Outstanding                           Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                        amounts                               amounts
                                                                                                                                   Transaction     carried in the       Transaction      carried in the
Name of related party and Nature of relationship          Nature of transaction                                                          value    Balance Sheet               value     Balance Sheet



A   Subsidiaries:
    PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (99.25% shares held by
    Bajaj Auto Ltd.)                                      Contribution to equity (411,875 shares of USD 3 each)                              –               6.17                  –              6.17
                                                          Provision for diminution in value of investment                                    –              (2.17)                 –             (2.17)
    Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV Amsterdam
    Netherlands (Fully owned subsidiary)                  Contribution to equity (1,980,000 shares of Euro 100 each)                         –           1,218.72                  –          1,218.72
    Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd. (Fully owned subsidiary)   Contribution to equity (449,997 shares of THB 100 each)                            –             10.54                   –             10.54
                                                          Services received                                                              12.35                  –                8.82                –
    Chetak Technology Ltd. (CTL)
    (Fully owned subsidiary)                              Contribution to equity (470,000,000 shares of H 10 each)                      465.00            470.00                5.00              5.00
                                                          Loan to CTL                                                                   100.00                  –                  –                 –
                                                          Repayment of Loan                                                             100.00                  –                  –                 –
                                                          Interest received on loan                                                       0.72                  –                  –                 –
                                                          Reimbursement of expenses                                                        0.11                 –               3.84                 –
                                                          Services rendered                                                               15.15                 –                  –                 –
                                                          Sales (including capital asset)                                                60.60                  –                  –                 –
                                                          Purchases                                                                      32.99                  –                  –                 –
    Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.
    (Fully owned subsidiary)                              Contribution to equity (30,000,000 shares of H 10 each)                        25.00             30.00                5.00              5.00
                                                          Reimbursement of expenses                                                       0.95                  –               1.72                 –
                                                          Business support service rendered                                                  –                  –               0.81                 –
    Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda         Contribution to equity (30,000,000 shares of Reais 1 each)                     48.00             48.00                   –                 –
    Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.                               Contribution to equity (6,000 shares of Euro 100 each)                             –               5.16               5.16              5.16
                                                          Services received                                                              12.46                  –                  –                 –


B   Associates, joint ventures and investing parties:
    Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. (Investing
    party - holds 34.18% shares of Bajaj Auto Ltd.)       Investment in shares by BHIL [96,727,050 shares of H 10 each]                      –            (96.73)                  –            (96.73)
                                                          Purchase of shares by BAL [3,500,000 shares of H 10 each]                          –           1,111.49                  –          1,111.49
                                                          Dividend paid                                                                1,354.18                 –            1,354.18                –
                                                          Dividend received                                                              47.25                  –              45.50                 –
                                                          Business support service received                                              40.34                  –              44.62                 –
                                                          Business support service rendered                                               0.23                  –               0.11                 –


C   Key management personnel and their relatives:
    Rahul Bajaj (Chairman Emeritus)                       Sitting fees                                                                       –                  –               0.01                 –
                                                          Commission                                                                         –                  –                0.03            (0.03)
                                                          Special Commission                                                                 –                  –                2.25                –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                             –                  –                0.25                –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                       –                  –                  –              3.60
    Rajiv Bajaj (Managing Director)                       Short-term employee benefits (including Commission)                            44.45            (29.45)              40.29            (27.52)
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                         3.12                 –                2.92                –
                                                          Rent paid for premises                                                          2.48                  –                2.21                –
                                                          Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                       –               1.92                  –              1.92
    Pradeep Shrivastava (Executive Director)              Short-term employee benefits                                                    9.34                  –                8.22                –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                        0.78                  –                0.69                –
                                                          Fair value of stock options granted                                              1.51                 –                0.94                –
    Rakesh Sharma (Executive Director)                    Short-term employee benefits                                                     9.72                 –                9.32                –
                                                          Post-employment benefits                                                        0.66                  –                0.57                –
                                                          Equity shares issued pursuant to stock option scheme                            1.20                  –                2.40                –
                                                          Fair value of stock options granted                                              1.41                 –                0.84                –




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited               181
                             Standalone                                                                         Changes                                                  Consolidated
Non-Financials               Financials        Audit Report     Balance Sheet           Profit and Loss         in Equity            Cash Flows              Notes       Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
39 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                    2022–23                            2021–22
                                                                                                                                            Outstanding                         Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                amounts                             amounts
                                                                                                                            Transaction    carried in the       Transaction    carried in the
Name of related party and Nature of relationship        Nature of transaction                                                     value   Balance Sheet               value   Balance Sheet



    Madhur Bajaj (Vice Chairman)                       Rent paid for premises                                                      0.33                 –              0.31                –
                                                       Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                   –              4.40                –              4.40
                                                       Sitting fees                                                                0.07                 –              0.05                –
                                                       Commission                                                                  0.18             (0.18)             0.13            (0.13)
    Sanjiv Bajaj                                       Sitting fees                                                                0.07                 –              0.05                –
                                                       Commission                                                                  0.18             (0.18)             0.13            (0.13)
    Shekhar Bajaj                                      Sitting fees                                                                0.03                 –              0.05                –
                                                       Commission                                                                  0.08            (0.08)              0.13            (0.13)
    Niraj Bajaj (Chairman)                             Sitting Fees                                                                0.11                 –              0.08                –
                                                       Commission                                                                  0.28            (0.28)              0.20            (0.20)
    Rishabnayan Bajaj (Management Trainee)             Short-term employee benefits                                                0.22                 –              0.10                –
                                                       Post-employment benefits                                                    0.01                 –              0.00                –
    Estate of Rahul Bajaj                              Rent paid for premises                                                      0.31                 –                –                 –
                                                       Deposit paid against premises taken on lease                                   –              3.60                –                 –


D   Other entities/persons:
    Bajaj Finserv Ltd.                                 Purchase of windpower                                                       0.66                 –              6.81                –
                                                       OA charges reimbursement                                                    0.52                 –              5.20                –
                                                       Business support service rendered                                           0.24                 –              0.40                –
                                                       Sale of Asset                                                               2.19                 –                –                 –
    Bajaj Finance Ltd.                                 Investment in shares by BFL (150 shares of H 10 each) - H 1,500                –            (0.00)                –             (0.00)
                                                       Service rendered                                                           31.69                 –             28.27            (0.07)
                                                       Service received                                                            8.23            (6.66)             11.63                –
                                                       Security deposit received                                                      –            (0.21)                –             (0.21)
                                                       Investment in fixed deposit                                               500.00           500.00                 –                 –
                                                       Investment in secured non convertible debentures                               –           500.00             500.00           500.00
                                                       Interest income/(reversal) on fixed deposit                                 9.52              9.52              0.87                –
                                                       Interest income/(reversal) on secured non convertible
                                                       debentures                                                                 25.25            22.55              22.55            22.55
                                                       Dividend paid                                                               0.00                 –              0.00                –
    Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.           Insurance premiums paid                                                    24.90             12.07             18.42            11.32
                                                       Claims received/receivable                                                  4.65                 –             26.80            14.30
    Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.              Insurance premiums paid/(refunded)                                             –                 –              4.29             0.03
                                                       Investment in shares by BALIC (125,000 shares of H 10 each)                    –             (0.13)               –             (0.13)
                                                       Dividend paid                                                               1.75                 –              1.75                –
    Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.                         Services rendered                                                           1.33                 –              0.06                –
                                                       Security deposit received                                                      –            (0.03)              0.00            (0.03)
    Bajaj Electricals Ltd.                             Purchases (including services received)                                     0.01             (0.11)             0.02            (0.11)
    Hind Musafir Agency Ltd.                           Services received                                                          10.74            (0.58)              2.16            (0.24)
    Hindustan Housing Co. Ltd.                         Maintenance charges paid                                                    0.29                 –              0.31             0.02
    KTM AG                                             Sale of vehicles and material                                             678.94             39.92            671.58            29.08
                                                       Services rendered and other debits                                         32.40                 –              3.14                –
                                                       Purchase of accessories and other credits                                   6.41                 –                –                 –




182         Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                              Standalone                                                                                                    Changes                                                                    Consolidated
Non-Financials                Financials                Audit Report             Balance Sheet                Profit and Loss               in Equity                    Cash Flows                   Notes            Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
39 Disclosure of transactions with related parties as required by the
   Indian Accounting Standard 24 (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                        2022–23                                      2021–22
                                                                                                                                                                                  Outstanding                                   Outstanding
                                                                                                                                                                                      amounts                                       amounts
                                                                                                                                                             Transaction         carried in the            Transaction         carried in the
Name of related party and Nature of relationship                       Nature of transaction                                                                       value        Balance Sheet                    value        Balance Sheet



     KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH                                         Sale of vehicles and material                                                               1,264.52                  40.02                844.66                  20.53
                                                                      Royalty paid and payable                                                                       29.37                   (9.11)                24.27                 (5.78)
                                                                      Services rendered and other debits                                                               0.38                      –                  7.66                       –
                                                                      Purchase of accessories, merchant purchase and other credits                                     0.57                      –                  0.52                       –
     K Motors South East Europe (KTM Southeast Europe
                                                      Sale of vehicles and material
     A.E.)                                                                                                                                                             2.24                  0.03                   1.15                 (0.40)
     KTM Southeast Europe S.A.                                        Sale of vehicles and material                                                                        –                (0.00)                      –                  0.39
     KTM Sportmotorcycle India Pvt. Ltd.                              Royalty paid and payable                                                                         7.41                 (2.29)                  6.18                 (1.12)
                                                                      Services rendered and other debits                                                               4.45                  0.23                   3.07                       –
     KTM Forschungs & Entwicklungs Gmbh                               Sale of vehicles and material                                                                    6.05                  0.21                       –                      –
     Husqvarna Motorcycles GmbH                                       Sale of vehicles and material                                                                 238.50                  11.60                317.83                  21.32
                                                                      Royalty paid and payable                                                                         0.27                 (0.05)                  0.43                 (0.13)
                                                                      Services rendered and other debits                                                                   –                     –                  0.04                       –
     Maharashtra Scooters Ltd.                                        Investment in shares by MSL (6,964,277 shares of H 10 each)                                          –                (6.96)                      –                (6.96)
                                                                      Dividend paid                                                                                  97.50                       –                 94.84                       –
                                                                      Purchases                                                                                        4.16                 (0.47)                  5.92                       –
                                                                      Sales (including capital asset)                                                                  0.00                      –                  0.01                       –
                                                                      Services rendered                                                                                0.07                      –                  0.10                 (5.70)
     CERG Advisory Pvt. Ltd.                                          Services received                                                                                    –                     –                  0.05                       –
     Bajaj Auto Holdings Ltd.                                         Business support services rendered                                                               0.00                      –                      –                      –
     Forbes Marshall Pvt Ltd                                          Purchases                                                                                        0.01                 (0.00)                      –                      –
     Krohne Marshall Pvt Ltd                                          Purchases                                                                                        0.10                 (0.01)                      –                      –
     Bajaj Auto Employees Group Gratuity Fund                         Gratuity contribution                                                                          11.00                       –                  4.00                       –
     Bajaj Auto Senior Staff Group Gratuity Fund                      Gratuity contribution                                                                            1.00                      –                  1.00                       –
     Bajaj Auto Employees Superannuation Fund                         Superannuation contribution                                                                      8.38                      –                  8.25                       –
     Bajaj Auto Ltd. Provident Fund                                   Provident fund contribution (Employer's share)                                                 42.76                   0.01                  39.94                (10.88)
     D J Balaji Rao                                                   Sitting fees                                                                                     0.19                      –                  0.16                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.48                 (0.48)                  0.40                 (0.40)
     Dr. Gita Piramal                                                 Sitting fees                                                                                         –                     –                  0.11                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                           –                     –                  0.28                 (0.28)
     Naushad D Forbes                                                 Sitting fees                                                                                     0.14                      –                  0.13                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.35                 (0.35)                  0.33                 (0.33)
     Omkar Goswami                                                    Sitting fees                                                                                         –                     –                  0.01                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                           –                     –                  0.03                 (0.03)
     Anami N. Roy                                                     Sitting fees                                                                                     0.14                      –                  0.12                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.35                 (0.35)                  0.30                 (0.30)
     Pradip Shah                                                      Sitting fees                                                                                     0.11                      –                  0.04                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.28                 (0.28)                  0.10                 (0.10)
     Ms. Lila Poonawala                                               Sitting fees                                                                                     0.08                      –                  0.05                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.20                 (0.20)                  0.13                 (0.13)
     Abhinav Bindra                                                   Sitting fees                                                                                     0.09                      –                  0.05                       –
                                                                      Commission                                                                                       0.23                 (0.23)                  0.13                 (0.13)
     CSEP Research Foundation                                         CSR Expenses                                                                                     1.60                      –                      –                      –

Name of the related party and nature of the related party relationship where control exists have been disclosed irrespective of whether or not there have been transactions between the related parties. In other cases, disclosure has been
made only when there have been transactions with those parties.
Related parties as defined under clause 9 of the Indian Accounting Standard - 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ have been identified based on representations made by key managerial personnel and information available with the company.
All above transactions are in the ordinary course of business and on arms’ length basis. All outstanding balances are unsecured and are repayable in cash.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited                        183
                       Standalone                                                       Changes                                           Consolidated
Non-Financials         Financials   Audit Report   Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows      Notes           Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
40 Lease
As a lessor

The Company has given premises on operating leases. These lease arrangements range for a period between eleven months to
nine years and include both cancellable and non cancellable leases. Most of the leases are renewable for further period on mutually
agreeable terms and also include escalation clauses.

The total future minimum lease rentals for non-cancellable leases, receivable at the Balance Sheet date is as under:
                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                               As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                    2023                2022



Receivable
Within one year                                                                                                                26.48                22.02
After one year but not more than five years                                                                                    48.97                49.43
More than five years                                                                                                              1.80               0.26
                                                                                                                                77.25               71.71


41 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
                                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                    2023                2022



a. Revenue expenditure - charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                              489.91              446.73
b. Revenue expenditure - capitalised                                                                                                  –                  –
c. Capital expenditure - excluding building                                                                                     35.15               42.06
d. Capital expenditure - building                                                                                                     –                  –
                                                                                                                              525.06              488.79


42 Ratios
                                                                                                                  As at/For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                           Remarks                      Numerator            Denominator                           2023                 2022



(a) Current ratio                                                  Current assets       Current liabilities                    1.71                   2.13
(b) Debt equity ratio                 Not applicable
(c) Debt service coverage ratio       Not applicable
(d) Return on equity ratio                                         Profit after tax     Avg. net worth                       21.6%                 19.4%
(e) Inventory turnover ratio                                       Material cost        Avg. inventory                        19.83                 17.86
(f) Trade receivables                 Change is due to              Revenue from        Avg. trade receivables                21.48                 15.18
    turnover ratio                    reduction in avg. trade      contracts with
                                      receivables                  customers
(g) Trade payables turnover ratio                                  Purchases            Trade payables                         6.95                  7.22
(h) Net capital turnover ratio        Increase is due to           Total income         Avg. working capital                   8.38                  4.97
                                      reduction in current
                                      assets and increase in
                                      trade payables
(i) Net profit ratio                                               Profit after tax     Total income                         15.0%                 14.6%
(j) Return on capital employed                                     Profit before tax    Avg. capital employed                27.9%                 24.5%
(k) Return on investments                                          Profit before tax    Avg. net worth                       28.4%                 25.1%


184      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                            16th Annual Report 2022-23
                     Standalone                                                      Changes                                         Consolidated
Non-Financials       Financials   Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss     in Equity         Cash Flows       Notes        Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
43 Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 30 January 2019, approved an Employee Stock Options Scheme (‘ESOS’). Pursuant to
the scheme stock options up to a maximum of 0.17% of the then issued equity capital of the Company aggregating to 5,000,000 equity
shares of the face value of H 10 each can be issued in a manner provided in the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014
as amended. The shareholders of the Company vide their special resolution passed through postal ballot on 11 March 2019 approved
the issue of equity shares of the Company under one or more Employee Stock Option Scheme(s).

The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has approved the following grants to select senior level executives of the
Company in accordance with the Stock Option Scheme. The details of grants made as of 31 March 2023 are given in below tables:

Particulars                                                                                                       31 March 2023



Grant date                                                                                           17 May 2019 29 April 2021 26 April 2022
No. of options granted                                                                                   287,636           277,116         447,692
Exercise price (H)                                                                                      2,942.65          3,889.75         3,892.10
Weighted average fair value (H)                                                                           827.52          1,091.44           959.75

                                                                                                                                Weighted average
                                                                                                                Weighted               remaining
                                                                             No. of          Range of fair    average fair        contractual life
Total for all grants                                                        options             value (J)        value (J)                (years)



Outstanding at the beginning of the year                                     469,986       663.31 - 1132.99           981.63                   5.79
Granted during the year                                                      447,692       854.21 - 1050.80           959.75                   1.02
Cancelled during the year                                                     20,644       720.18 - 1248.65           879.59                    NA
Expired during the year                                                            1,619    633.10 - 974.15           830.66                    NA
Exercised during the year                                                      9,928        663.31 - 974.15           840.91                    NA
Outstanding at the end of the year                                          885,487        663.31 - 1248.65           903.50                   5.67
Vested and exercisable at the end of the year                                201,480       663.31 - 1248.65           839.40                   3.51

Method used for accounting for share based payment plan:

The Company has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees. The fair value of
options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes model. The key assumptions used in Black Scholes model
for calculating fair value as on the date of grants are:
                                                                                                                    Price of the underlying share
                                        Risk Free                                   Expected                          in the market at the time of
Grant date                           interest rate       Expected life              volatility   Dividend yield                the option grant (J)



17 May 2019                       6.88% to 7.26%       3.51-6.51 years   22.18% to 23.79%                2.04%                             2,942.65
29 April 2021                     5.18% to 6.08%       3.51-6.51 years   29.35% to 26.65%                2.06%                             3,889.75
26 April 2022                     6.15% to 6.82%       3.51-6.51 years   26.03% to 28.79%                3.60%                             3,892.10

For the year ended 31 March 2023, the Company has accounted expense of H 29.82 crore as employee benefit expenses (See note 25)
on the aforesaid employee stock option plan (Previous year H 15.36 crore ). The balance in employee stock option outstanding account
is H 62.09 crore as of 31 March 2023 (Previous year H 32.27 crore).					




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited       185
                  Standalone                                                      Changes                                 Consolidated
Non-Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows      Notes     Financials




Notes to standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
44 MSME disclosure
Considering the Company has been extended credit period upto 45 days by its vendors and payments being released on a timely
basis, there is no liability towards interest on delayed payments under ‘The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development
Act 2006’ during the year. There is also no amount of outstanding interest in this regard, brought forward from previous years.
Information in this regard is on basis of intimation received, on requests made by the Company, with regards to registration of
vendors under the said Act.


45 Miscellaneous
a. There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.
b. Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.
c. The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for
   holding any Benami property.
d. The Company has performed the assessment to identify transactions with struck off companies as at 31 March 2023 and
   identified no company with any transactions.
e. The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
f.   The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties
     (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person.
g. No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind
   of funds by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding,
   whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
   persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any
   guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
h. No funds have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the
   understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest
   in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
   provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
i.   The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or Government or any Government authority.
j.   The Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits from banks or financial institutions during any point of time of the
     year on the basis of security of current assets.
k. The Company does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or
   disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any
   other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
l.   The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
m. Figures for previous year/period have been regrouped wherever necessary.



As per our report of even date                                                                      On behalf of the Board of Directors



For S R B C & CO LLP                                                                                              Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants                                                                                             Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                 (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                  Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                       Dinesh Thapar                          Managing Director
                                                                    Chief Financial Officer                    (DIN: 00018262)

per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                       Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                              Dr. J Sridhar                    Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                  Company Secretary                       (DIN: 01361110)




186      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
                  Standalone     Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials    Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss    in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
To the Members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

Opinion

We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Holding
Company’), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the ‘Group’) and its associate
comprising of the consolidated Balance sheet as at 31 March 2023, the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including other
comprehensive income, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year
then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the ‘consolidated financial statements’).

In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of
reports of other auditors on separate financial statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and its associate,
the aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (‘the Act’) in
the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the
consolidated state of affairs of the Group and its associate as at 31 March 2023, their consolidated profit including other comprehensive
income, their consolidated cash flows and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended on that date.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as specified under
section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit
of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Group and its associate in accordance with
the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.

Key audit matters

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated
financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2023. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.

We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled
the responsibilities described in the ‘Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements’ section of our
report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond
to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements. The results of audit procedures
performed by us and by other auditors of components not audited by us, as reported by them in their audit reports furnished to us by
the Management, including those procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Key audit matters                                   How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Accounting for buy-back (as described in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements)
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on       Our audit procedures included the following:
27 June 2022, approved a proposal to buy-back       •   Obtained and read the minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors in which the
equity shares of the Company for an aggregate           proposed buy-back was approved.
amount not exceeding H 2,500 crore having a face
value of Rs. 10 each from the existing              •   Compared the buy-back amount as approved by the Board of Directors with the
shareholders (except promoters, promoter group          permissible limit computed in accordance with relevant provisions of Section 68 of
and persons in control of the Company) from open        the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of
market through stock market mechanism (i.e.,            India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 as amended (‘SEBI Buyback
through National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. and       Regulations’).
BSE Ltd.) at a maximum buy-back price not           •   Obtained and read the resolutions passed by the Buy-back Committee for approving
exceeding H 4,600 per equity share. This                the extinguishment of shares which were bought back.
transaction had a significant effect on the
standalone financial statements and hence was
                                                    •   Read the Certificate of Extinguishment of Equity Shares, which has been prepared by
                                                        the Company pursuant to Regulation 21 read with Regulation 11(iii) of the SEBI
considered as a Key Audit Matter.
                                                        Buyback Regulations.




188       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone     Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials    Financials     Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows      Notes




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
Key audit matters                                    How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Accounting for buy-back (as described in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements)
                                                     •   Read the letters received by the Company from National Securities Depository Ltd.
                                                         (NSDL) for extinguishment of equity shares of the Company bought back in
                                                         dematerialised form under the buy-back offer.
                                                     •   Obtained the transaction statement from the Company’s Registrar and compared the
                                                         number of equity shares extinguished by NSDL as per aforesaid letters with the
                                                         equity shares debited in the depository account.
                                                     •   Assessed the Management’s evaluation of compliance with Section 67, 68 and 69 of
                                                         the Companies Act, 2013, read with rule 17 of the Companies (share capital and
                                                         debentures) Amendment Rules, 2016.
                                                     •   Assessed the Management’s evaluation of compliance with the provisions of Section
                                                         115QA of Income-tax Act, 1961.
                                                     •   Assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial statements.
                                                     •   Obtained necessary representation from the Management.
Accounting for income from government grants (as described in Note 7, 8 and 22 of the consolidated financial statements)
The Company recognises various incentives (‘Grant Our audit procedures included the following:
income’) receivable from the Government as per        • Read the relevant schemes, notifications and policies issued by respective
the relevant schemes, notifications and policies        Government authorities.
issued from time to time.
Recognition of Grant income and assessment of its
                                                      • Obtained and tested the computation of Grant income prepared by Management.
recoverability is subject to significant judgments    • Evaluated the Management’s assessment regarding compliance with the relevant
arising out of conditions of various schemes and        conditions as specified in the relevant notifications and policies including compliance
interpretation of various notifications of respective   with relevant accounting standards.
government authorities. Accordingly, this matter      • Assessed the disclosures in the standalone financial statements for compliance with
has been determined to be a Key Audit Matter in         relevant standards.
our audit of the standalone financial statements.
                                                      • Obtained Management representation in regard to the recognition and disclosures in
                                                        respect of the Grant income.

Other information

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Chairman’s letter, Management Discussion and Analysis, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, Corporate
Governance and Directors’ Report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.

Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Management for the consolidated financial statements

The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial
statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated
financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement of changes in
equity of the Group including its associate in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the
assets of their respective companies and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of
preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited        189
                 Standalone    Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials   Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of
its associates are responsible for assessing the ability of their respective companies to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Management either intends to
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associate are also responsible for overseeing
the financial reporting process of their respective companies.

Auditors’ Responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
consolidated financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the
audit. We also:

• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
   design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to
   provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
   resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
   internal control.

• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
   circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Holding
   Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness
   of such controls.

• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
   disclosures made by Management.

• Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
   obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the
   Group and its associate to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
   attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are
   inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report.
   However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associate to cease to continue as a going concern.

• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures,
   and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
   fair presentation.

• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
   Group and its associate of which we are the independent auditors and whose financial information we have audited, to express an
   opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit
   of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent
   auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such
   other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain
   solely responsible for our audit opinion.

We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated
financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.




190     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone     Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials   Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2023 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

Other matter

(a) We did not audit the financial statements and other financial information, in respect of five (5) subsidiaries, whose financial
    statements include total assets of H 86.50 crore as at 31 March 2023, and total revenues of H 23.55 crore and net cash outflows
    of H 2.29 crore for the year ended on that date. These financial statement and other financial information have been audited by
    other auditors, which financial statements, other financial information and auditors’ reports have been furnished to us by the
    Management. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit of H 529.29 crore for the year
    ended 31 March 2023, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of one (1) associate, whose financial
    statements, other financial information have been audited by other auditors and whose reports have been furnished to us by the
    Management. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included
    in respect of these subsidiaries and associate, and our report in terms of sub-sections (3) of section 143 of the Act, in so far as it
    relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and associate, is based solely on the reports of such other auditors.

   Certain of these subsidiaries and associate are located outside India whose financial statements and other financial information
   have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries and which have
   been audited by other auditors under generally accepted auditing standards applicable in their respective countries. The Holding
   Company’s management has converted the financial statements of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India from
   accounting principles generally accepted in their respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India.
   We have audited these conversion adjustments made by the Holding Company’s management. Our opinion in so far as it relates
   to the balances and affairs of such subsidiaries and associate located outside India is based on the report of other auditors and
   the conversion adjustments prepared by the Management of the Holding Company and audited by us.

Our opinion above on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is
not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (the ‘Order’ or ‘CARO’), issued by the Central Government of India in
   terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on
   separate financial statements and the other financial information of the subsidiary companies, incorporated in India, there are no
   matters which require reporting as specified as in paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order. The Holding Company did not have any associate
   company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India.

2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on separate
   financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries, and associate, as noted in the ‘other matter’ paragraph
   we report, to the extent applicable, that:

   (a) We/the other auditors whose report we have relied upon have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which
       to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial
       statements;

   (b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidation
       of the financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and reports of the
       other auditors;

   (c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other
       Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with
       by this Report are in agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated
       financial statements;

   (d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under section
       133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited        191
                  Standalone    Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials    Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
   (e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2023 taken
       on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors who are appointed
       under section 139 of the Act, of its subsidiary companies, none of the directors of the Group’s companies, incorporated
       in India, is disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
       The Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control over
       any entity incorporated in India.

   (f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the
       Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, incorporated in India, and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer
       to our separate Report in Annexure 1 to this report. The Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in
       India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India

   (g) In our opinion and based on the consideration of reports of other statutory auditors of the subsidiaries incorporated in India,
       the managerial remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2023 has been paid / provided by the Holding Company and its
       subsidiaries incorporated in India to their directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V
       to the Act; The Holding Company did not have any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control
       over any entity incorporated in India

   (h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit
       and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
       given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial statements as also the
       other financial information of the subsidiaries and associates, as noted in the ‘Other matter’ paragraph:

		     i.   The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on its consolidated financial position
            of the Group and its associate and in its consolidated financial statements – Refer note 40 to the consolidated financial
            statements;

		     ii. The Group and its associate did not have any material foreseeable losses in long-term contracts including derivative
           contracts during the year ended 31 March 2023;

		     iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
            Fund by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in India during the year ended 31 March 2023.

		     iv. a) The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in
              India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of
              such subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been advanced or loaned
              or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Holding
              Company or any of such subsidiaries to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’),
              with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly
              or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the
              respective Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or
              the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;

			         b) The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India
               whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditors of such
               subsidiaries respectively that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been received by the respective
               Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries from any persons or entities, including foreign entities (‘Funding
               Parties’), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or any of such
               subsidiaries shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner
               whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any guarantee, security or the like
               on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and




192     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone    Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials   Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes




Independent Auditors‘ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.)
			        c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances performed
              by us and that performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose
              financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice that has
              caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any material
              mis-statement.

		     v) The final dividend paid by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries companies incorporated in India during the year in
          respect of the same declared for the previous year is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to
          payment of dividend.

		     vi) As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable only w.e.f. April 1, 2023 for the Holding
           Company and its subsidiaries companies incorporated in India, hence reporting under this clause is not applicable.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 23089802BGYPVV1818
Pune: 25 April 2023




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        193
                 Standalone     Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials   Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under the heading ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ of our report
of even date to the members of Bajaj Auto Ltd.

Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’)

In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto Limited (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Holding
Company’) as of and for the year ended 31 March 2023, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as
‘the Group’), which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.

Management’s responsibility for internal financial controls

The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, which are companies incorporated in India, are responsible
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities
include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the
timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Auditors’ responsibility

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company’s internal financial controls with reference to consolidated
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial
Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) and the Standards on Auditing, specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both, issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls
operated effectively in all material respects.

Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment,
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports
referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements.

Meaning of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements

A company’s internal financial control with reference to consolidated financial statements is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control with reference to
consolidated financial statements includes those policies and procedures that

(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of
    the assets of the company;

(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
    only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and

(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.




194     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone    Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials   Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes




Annexure 1 to Independent Auditors’ Report (Contd.)
Inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements

Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur
and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial
statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Opinion

In our opinion, the Group, which are companies incorporated in India, have, maintained in all material respects, adequate internal
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to
consolidated financial statements were operating effectively as at 31 March2023, based on the internal control over financial
reporting criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the
Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.

Other matters

Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with
reference to consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company, in so far as it relates to one (1) subsidiary, which is
incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiary. The Holding Company did not have
any associate company incorporated in India and did not exercise joint control over any entity incorporated in India.


For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003



per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 089802
UDIN: 23089802BGYPVV1818
Pune: 25 April 2023




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited        195
                    Standalone   Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials      Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes




Consolidated Balance Sheet
                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                      Note No.           2023               2022



ASSETS


Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment                                                                        2            2,761.52           1,759.60
Capital work-in-progress                                                                             2              85.27              77.21
Investment property                                                                                  3              50.01               51.13
Intangible assets                                                                                    4              30.70              25.32
Intangible assets under development                                                                  4                  –                  –
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                              5A            4,884.03       4,063.79
Financial assets
   Investments                                                                                      5B           16,717.53      17,601.20
   Trade receivables                                                                                 10                 –                  –
   Loans                                                                                             6                2.28              4.57
   Other financial assets                                                                            7              33.72              61.39
Income tax assets (net)                                                                                            812.46             749.24
Other non-current assets                                                                             8             108.53             352.15
                                                                                                                25,486.05      24,745.60


Current assets
Inventories                                                                                          9            1,563.55       1,230.51
Financial assets
   Investments                                                                                      5B            4,581.35           4,969.13
   Trade receivables                                                                                 10           1,752.43           1,516.38
   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                         11             241.62            933.69
   Other bank balances                                                                               12            448.86              24.37
   Loans                                                                                             6                3.62               4.17
   Other financial assets                                                                            7             473.37             596.26
Other current assets                                                                                 8             585.60            1,091.10
                                                                                                                 9,650.40      10,365.61
                                                                                                                35,136.45      35,111.21




196     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity          Cash Flows        Notes




Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                            As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                         Note No.                2023              2022



EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital                                                                                    13                 282.96            289.37
Other equity                                                                                            14              29,078.58        29,570.28
Equity attributable to owners of the Company                                                                           29,361.54        29,859.65
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                     0.01                0.01
Total equity                                                                                                           29,361.55        29,859.66


Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Sales tax deferral                                                                                  15                 124.23            122.77
Provisions                                                                                              16                    1.24               1.30
Deferred tax liabilities (net)                                                                          17                 345.15            402.68
Government grant                                                                                                            33.35             36.00
Other non-current liabilities                                                                           18                    0.19               0.30
                                                                                                                           504.16            563.05
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
    Trade payables
         Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                              19                 278.26            150.64
         Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises         19               3,842.92         3,481.51
    Other financial liabilities                                                                         20                 464.09            397.00
Other current liabilities                                                                               21                 492.61            478.80
Provisions                                                                                              16                 166.47            153.75
Government grant                                                                                                             2.65                2.65
Current tax liabilities (net)                                                                                               23.74             24.15
                                                                                                                         5,270.74         4,688.50
                                                                                                                       35,136.45        35,111.21
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group                                        1




The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements                         On behalf of the Board of Directors

As per our report of even date

For S R B C & CO LLP                                                                                                     Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                    Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                        (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                         Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                          Dinesh Thapar                              Managing Director
                                                                       Chief Financial Officer                        (DIN: 00018262)

per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                               Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                 Dr. J Sridhar                         Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                     Company Secretary                            (DIN: 01361110)



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited          197
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows       Notes




Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                 For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                        Note No.            2023             2022



Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                              35,391.52        32,135.98
Other operating revenue                                                                                             1,063.86         1,008.73
Revenue from operations                                                                               22           36,455.38        33,144.71
Other income                                                                                          23             1,187.52        1,284.14
Total income                                                                                                      37,642.90        34,428.85


Expenses
Cost of raw materials and components consumed                                                                      24,073.13        22,169.88
Purchase of traded goods                                                                                            2,148.45         1,971.98
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods                           24             (100.33)           187.96
Employee benefits expense                                                                             25            1,484.47         1,362.79
Finance costs                                                                                         26                39.51              8.66
Depreciation and amortisation expense                                                                 27              285.85            269.76
Other expenses                                                                                        28            2,426.95         2,215.49
Expenses, included in above items, capitalised                                                                        (27.82)          (13.31)
Total expenses                                                                                                    30,330.21        28,173.21


Share of profits of associate                                                                                         529.29           579.53


Profit before exceptional items and tax                                                                             7,841.98        6,835.17


Exceptional items                                                                                     29                    –         (816.51)


Profit before tax                                                                                                   7,841.98        7,651.68


Tax expense
    Current tax                                                                                                     1,854.89          1,667.11
    Deferred tax                                                                                                      (73.12)         (181.30)
Total tax expense                                                                                     30             1,781.77        1,485.81


Profit after tax                                                                                                    6,060.21        6,165.87


Profit attributable to non-controlling interest                                                                             –                  –


Profit for the year                                                                                                 6,060.21        6,165.87




198     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone      Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials     Financials      Financials       Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows        Notes




Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                      For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                          Note No.               2023             2022



Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans                                                                        (2.11)           17.94
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                       0.53            (4.52)
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of defined benefit plans - share of associate of subsidiary                                         –               2.39
    Changes in fair value of FVTOCI equity instruments                                                                     337.14           605.59
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                    (36.42)           (67.61)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
    Valuation gains/(losses) on derivative hedging instruments                                                             (80.53)          (40.87)
    Tax impact on above                                                                                                     20.27             10.29
    Other adjustments - share of associate of subsidiary                                                                     12.11            21.13
    Change in foreign currency translation reserve of subsidiary                                                           301.92          (113.98)
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)                                                                                    552.91           430.36


Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                                  6,613.12         6,596.23


Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                                    6,060.21         6,165.87
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                         –                  –
                                                                                                                         6,060.21         6,165.87


Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company                                                                                                     6,613.12        6,596.23
Non-controlling interest                                                                                                         –                  –
                                                                                                                         6,613.12         6,596.23


Basic and diluted Earnings per share (in H)                                                             31                   212.5            213.2
(Nominal value per share H 10)
Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group                                         1




The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements                         On behalf of the Board of Directors

As per our report of even date

For S R B C & CO LLP                                                                                                     Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                    Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                        (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                         Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                           Dinesh Thapar                             Managing Director
                                                                        Chief Financial Officer                       (DIN: 00018262)

per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                                Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                  Dr. J Sridhar                         Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                      Company Secretary                            (DIN: 01361110)


16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                           Bajaj Auto Limited          199
                  Standalone      Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials    Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows        Notes




Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
A. Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                       Note No.            2023             2022



At the beginning of the year                                                                                         289.37           289.37
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors                                                                 –                  –
Restated balance at the beginning of the current reporting period                                                    289.37           289.37
Changes in equity share capital                                                                                        (6.41)                 –
At the end of the year                                                                               13              282.96           289.37




200     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                            Standalone             Consolidated                                                                                    Changes
Non-Financials              Financials             Financials               Audit Report           Balance Sheet             Profit and Loss       in Equity        Cash Flows             Notes




Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Contd.)
B. Other equity
                                                                                                                                                                                            (H In Crore)
                                                                                                         Attributable to owners
                                                Reserves and
                                                  surplus                                                            Other reserves
                                                                                                    Foreign
                                                                                                  exchange
                                                                            Cash              difference of   Foreign                                Share
                                                                            flow     Costs of    subsidiary  currency                     Capital    based                             Total       Non-
                                   Note      General       Retained      hedging     hedging    on paid-up translation FVTOCI Capital redemption payments Treasury                     other controlling
Particulars                        No.       reserve       earnings      reserve     reserve         capital  reserve reserve Reserve    reserve   reserve  shares                    equity    interest



Balance as at 31 March 2021         14      5,887.60      20,357.85       148.90       (58.06)             0.27        574.30      88.43      –           –      16.91   (32.14)   26,984.06        0.01
Profit for the year                                 –      6,165.87             –            –                  –           –         –       –           –         –         –     6,165.87           –
Recognition of share based
payments to employees                               –                –          –            –                  –           –         –       –           –      15.36        –        15.36           –
Recognition of capital reserve
on consolidation                                    –                –          –            –                  –           –         –    63.14          –         –         –        63.14           –
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax)                                        –          36.94      (94.57)        63.99             0.01       (113.99)    537.98      –           –         –         –       430.36           –
Total comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March
2022                                                –      6,202.81       (94.57)        63.99             0.01       (113.99)    537.98   63.14          –      15.36        –     6,674.73           –


Transactions with owners in
their capacity as owners
Transfer from Retained
earnings to General reserve                   502.00        (502.00)            –            –                  –           –         –       –           –         –         –            –           –
Treasury shares held by
ESOP Trust                                          –                –          –            –                  –           –         –       –           –         –    (37.37)      (37.37)          –
Final dividend for the year
ended 31 March 2021                                 –     (4,051.14)            –            –                  –           –         –                             –         –    (4,051.14)          –
Balance as at 31 March 2022         14      6,389.60     22,007.52         54.33          5.93            0.28        460.31     626.41    63.14          –      32.27   (69.51) 29,570.28          0.01


Profit for the year                                 –      6,060.21             –            –                  –           –         –       –           –         –         –     6,060.21           –
Recognition of share based
payments to employees                               –                –          –            –                  –           –         –       –           –      29.82        –        29.82           –
Other comprehensive income
(net of tax)                                        –          10.53      (54.33)        (5.93)            0.01        301.91     300.72      –           –         –         –       552.91           –
Total comprehensive income for
the year ended 31 March 2023                        –     6,070.74        (54.33)       (5.93)             0.01        301.91     300.72      –           –      29.82        –     6,642.94           –


Transactions with owners in
their capacity as owners
Recognition of capital
redemption reserve                                  –          (6.41)           –            –                  –           –         –       –         6.41        –         –            –           –
Treasury shares held by
ESOP Trust                                          –                –          –            –                  –           –         –       –           –         –      5.78         5.78           –
Final dividend for the year
ended 31 March 2022                                 –     (4,051.14)            –            –                  –           –         –                             –         –    (4,051.14)          –
Transaction costs on issue
of shares                                           –          (1.81)           –            –                  –           –         –       –           –         –         –        (1.81)          –
Share buyback and tax
thereon                                             –     (3,087.47)            –            –                  –           –         –       –           –         –         –    (3,087.47)          –
Balance as at 31 March 2023         14      6,389.60     20,931.43              –            –            0.29        762.22     927.13    63.14        6.41     62.09   (63.73) 29,078.58          0.01
Note: There are no changes in accounting policies or prior period errors during the current or previous year.

Summary of significant
accounting policies followed         1
by the Group


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements                                                                     On behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP                                                                                                                                                   Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                                                                  Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                                                                      (DIN: 00028261)
                                                                                                                                                                       Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                                                                   Dinesh Thapar                                   Managing Director
                                                                                                                Chief Financial Officer                             (DIN: 00018262)
per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                                                                              Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                                                          Dr. J Sridhar                               Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                                                              Company Secretary                                  (DIN: 01361110)


16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited              201
                   Standalone      Consolidated                                                          Changes
Non-Financials     Financials      Financials       Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss       in Equity        Cash Flows       Notes




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                      2023                               2022



I.   Operating activities                                                                                     7,841.98                      7,651.68
        Profit before tax
        Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
        Add:
           i) Depreciation and amortisation expense                                          285.85                             269.76
          ii) Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished,
              discarded and scrapped                                                          14.11                               8.88
          iii) Provision for doubtful debts and advances                                       4.79                              (4.44)
          iv) Share based payment to employees                                                29.82                              15.36
          v) Exchange loss/(gain) on cash and cash equivalents                                11.39                              (3.55)
          vi) Exchange loss/(gain) on trade receivables                                        2.50                               2.39
         vii) Exchange loss/(gain) on import payables                                          0.24                               3.64
        viii) Interest adjustment on Government grant                                          1.46                               1.31
          ix) Interest expense                                                                38.05                               7.35
                                                                                                                388.21                        300.70
        Less:
           i) Investment income included in above:
                 Interest income on fixed income securities                                  306.99                            275.05
                 Interest income on fixed deposits                                            63.85                              36.42
                 Interest income on exchange traded funds                                   344.56                             204.68
                 Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                      39.55                            388.93
                 Profit on sale of other investments, net                                            –                           74.90
                 Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual
                 funds measured at fair value through profit or loss                         177.67                            224.47
                 Dividend income on other strategic investments                               47.25                              45.50
                 Amortisation of premium/discount on acquisition of
                 fixed income securities                                                      (2.00)                            (17.67)
                                                                                             977.87                           1,232.28
          ii) Share of profits of associate                                                  529.29                             579.53
          iii) Government grants                                                               2.65                               2.65
          iv) Exceptional item                                                                       –                          816.51
          v) Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                111.56                              21.59
                                                                                                             (1,621.37)                    (2,652.56)
                                                                                                              6,608.82                      5,299.82
        Change in assets and liabilities
           i) (Increase)/decrease in inventories                                           (333.04)                            263.38
          ii) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables                                     (243.34)                           1,202.52
          iii) (Increase)/decrease in loans and other assets                                 587.58                              76.82
          iv) Increase/(decrease) in liabilities and provisions                              576.24                           (943.47)
                                                                                                                587.44                        599.25
        Annuity payments (net) to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                      (0.32)                         (0.32)
        Net cash flow from operating activities before income tax                                             7,195.94                      5,898.75
              Income tax paid                                                                                (1,918.52)                    (1,701.54)
        Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities                                                    5,277.42                       4,197.21


                                                                     Carried forward                          5,277.42                      4,197.21



202      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                           16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone       Consolidated                                                       Changes
Non-Financials    Financials       Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss     in Equity         Cash Flows       Notes




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                     2023                             2022



                                                                   Brought forward                         5,277.42                        4,197.21
II. Investing activities
      i) Sale of investments                                                             10,792.76                        11,526.59
     ii) Purchase of investments                                                        (9,384.23)                       (11,083.79)
     iii) Sale/(purchase) of liquid mutual funds, etc., net                                 759.84                         (209.44)
     iv) Investment in treasury shares by ESOP trust                                          5.78                           (37.37)
     v) (Increase)/decrease in other bank balances                                        (424.49)                            (2.14)
     vi) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including advances)                  (1,074.47)                        (550.75)
    vii) Sale proceeds of property plant and equipment                                      136.90                            33.07
    viii) Capital expenditure on development of technical know-how                          (35.73)                                  –
                                                                                            776.36                         (323.83)
     ix) Investment income
        Interest income on fixed income securities                                          306.99                           275.05
        Interest income on fixed deposits                                                    63.85                            36.42
        Dividend income on other strategic investments                                       47.25                            45.50
                                                                                            418.09                           356.97
        (Increase)/decrease in interest receivable                                            5.07                          (114.00)
                                                                                            423.16                           242.97
        Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities                                                 1,199.52                         (80.86)


                                                                    Carried forward                        6,476.94                        4,116.35




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited         203
                   Standalone      Consolidated                                                              Changes
Non-Financials     Financials      Financials         Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss        in Equity          Cash Flows        Notes




Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                              For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                                                                                           2023                               2022



                                                                      Brought forward                             6,476.94                         4,116.35
III. Financing activities
       i) Interest expense                                                                      (38.05)                               (7.35)
      ii) Equity share buy–back (incl. tax thereon)                                         (3,093.88)                                      –
      iii) Transaction costs on issue of shares                                                     (1.81)                                  –
      iv) Dividend, including interim dividend paid                                          (4,046.96)                           (4,048.98)


    Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities                                                           (7,180.70)                       (4,056.33)


IV. Change in foreign currency translation arising on consolidation                                                  23.08                           353.51


    Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                                       (680.68)                           413.53


    Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                                                          933.69                           516.61
    Add/(Less): Effects of exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents                                        (11.39)                               3.55
    Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [See note 11]                                                  241.62                           933.69


                                                                                                                   On behalf of the Board of Directors
As per our report of even date
For S R B C & CO LLP                                                                                                              Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                             Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                                 (DIN: 00028261)
                                                                                                                                  Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                             Dinesh Thapar                                    Managing Director
                                                                          Chief Financial Officer                              (DIN: 00018262)
per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                                        Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                                    Dr. J Sridhar                               Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                        Company Secretary                                  (DIN: 01361110)




204      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                16th Annual Report 2022-23
                  Standalone    Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials    Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023
Corporate information
Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in India. The Company is engaged in
the business of development, manufacturing and distribution of automobiles such as motorcycles, commercial vehicles, electric
two-wheelers etc. and parts thereof. The Company sells its products in India as well as in various other global markets.
The registered office of the Company is located at Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune 411035.

The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 March 2023. The consolidated financial statements were approved for issue in
accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company on 25 April 2023.

The consolidated financial statements include results of the subsidiaries of Bajaj Auto Ltd., consolidated in accordance with
Ind AS 110 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and Ind AS 28 ‘Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures’.

                                               Country of          % Shareholding of     % Shareholding of
Name of the Company                            Incorporation       Bajaj Auto Ltd.       Non-controlling interest      Consolidated as



PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia                       Indonesia           99.25%                0.75%                         Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV           Netherlands         100.00%               –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                     Thailand            100.00%               –                             Subsidiary
Chetak Technology Ltd.                         India               100.00%               –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.               India               100.00%               –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.                        Spain               100.00%               –                             Subsidiary
Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio
                                               Brazil              100.00%               –                             Subsidiary
De Motocicletas Ltda


The consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV include 49.90% interest in Pierer Bajaj AG as an associate.


1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group

Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under Section 133
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from
time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act, on an accrual basis.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities
(including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value.

The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the
nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.

All assets and liabilities, other than deferred tax assets and liabilities, have been classified as current or non-current as per the
Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III (Division II) to the Act. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. Based on the nature of products and the time between the acquisition of
assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the Group has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months
for current and non-current classification of assets and liabilities.


Significant accounting policies
This note provides a list of the significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited        205
                 Standalone     Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials   Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group (Contd.)
1   Basis of Consolidation

    The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries, being
    the entities that it controls. Control is evidenced where the Group has power over the investee or is exposed, or has rights, to
    variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the
    investee. Power is demonstrated through existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant activities, which significantly affect
    the entity returns. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company.
    Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align the accounting policies in line with
    accounting policies of the Group. For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit/loss for the financial year and net
    assets is attributed to the non-controlling interests as shown in the consolidated statement of profit and loss and consolidated
    balance sheet. For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries, where there is no change in control, the Group recognises
    a reduction to the non-controlling interest of the respective subsidiary with the difference between this figure and the cash paid,
    inclusive of transaction fees, being recognised in equity. In addition, upon dilution of controlling interests the difference between
    the cash received from sale or listing of the subsidiary shares and the increase to non-controlling interest is also recognised
    in equity. The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired or disposed off during the year are included in the consolidated
    statement of profit and loss from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Intragroup
    balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in
    preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered. The financial
    statements of Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd., Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U. and Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda are prepared
    with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial statements.

2   Investment in associates

    Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a
    position to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies. The considerations made in determining whether
    significant influence is being exercised are similar to those necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries. Goodwill arising
    on the acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associate.

    The Group’s investments in its associate are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, the investment in
    an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group’s
    share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying
    amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment individually.

    The Statement of Profit and Loss reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the associate. Any change in OCI of
    those investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the
    equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
    Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the
    interest in the associate.

    If an entity’s share of losses of an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate (which includes any long term interest
    that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate), the entity discontinues recognising its share of
    further losses. Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or
    made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate subsequently reports profits, the entity resumes recognising its share
    of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.

    The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of an associate is shown on the face of the Statement of Profit and Loss.

    The financial statements of the associate are prepared with a three months’ time lag for consolidation into the Group financial
    statements. When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group. The Group
    has not identified any material adjustments during the year; in regard to the alignment of accounting policies.

    After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its
    investment in its associate. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment
    in the associate is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between
    the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss in the Statement of Profit or Loss.

    Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair
    value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the
    retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.




206     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone     Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials   Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group (Contd.)
3   Foreign currencies

    The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the parent company’s functional currency.
    For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity
    are measured using that functional currency. The Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign
    operation the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method.
    Transactions and balances
    Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s entities at their respective functional currency spot rates
    at the date the transaction first qualifies for recognition. However, for practical reasons, the group uses an average rate if the
    average approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction.

    Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange
    at the reporting date.

    Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss with
    the exception of the following:

    Exchange differences arising on monetary items that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation
    are recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the individual
    financial statements of the foreign operation, as appropriate. In the financial statements that include the foreign operation and
    the reporting entity (e.g. consolidated financial statements when the foreign operation is a subsidiary), such exchange differences
    are recognised initially in Statement of Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’). These exchange differences are reclassified from
    equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.

    Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those monetary items are also recorded in OCI.

    Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
    rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated
    using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary
    items measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item
    (i.e. translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in OCI or Statement of Profit and Loss are
    also recognised in OCI or Statement of Profit and Loss, respectively).

    Group companies

    On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into INR at the rate of exchange prevailing at the
    reporting date and their Statement of Profit and Loss are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
    For practical reasons, the group uses an average rate to translate income and expense items, if the average rate approximates
    the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are
    recognised in OCI. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is
    recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.

    Any goodwill arising in the acquisition/business combination of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and
    translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.

    Gain or loss on a subsequent disposal of any foreign operation excludes translation differences that arose before the date of
    transition but includes only translation differences arising after the transition date.

4   Taxation

    a) Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
       authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at
       the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.

    b) Current income tax relating to items recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss is recognised outside Statement of
       Profit and Loss (either in OCI or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either
       in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in
       which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited        207
                  Standalone    Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials    Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
1 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group (Contd.)
  c) Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
     liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been
     enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax
     asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
		
		 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that
     future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.

    d) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets
       against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.


5   Other significant accounting policies
    Other significant accounting policies followed by the Group are exactly similar to the significant accounting policies of the parent,
    Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been reproduced here. Refer note 1 of standalone financial statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd. for
    the year ended 31 March 2023 for details in regard to other significant accounting policies.




208     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                            Standalone      Consolidated                                                                       Changes
Non-Financials              Financials      Financials            Audit Report         Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss      in Equity             Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                   Gross block                                                   Depreciation                          Net block
                                                  As at                                           As at          As at                                        As at          As at
                                                1 April                        Deductions/    31 March         1 April                          For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                       2022        Additions        adjustments        2023           2022       Deductions            year        2023           2023



Land freehold                                     19.97               –                 –         19.97             –               –                –            –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right–of–use assets)             152.41               –               1.98       150.43             –               –                –            –         150.43
Buildings                                        979.94           301.32                –      1,281.26        382.27               –            23.58       405.85         875.41
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                  17.79             0.04                –         17.83         15.06               –             0.33        15.39            2.44
Plant and machinery                            1,296.46           193.54             17.83     1,472.17       1,032.78           11.84           56.94     1,077.88         394.29
Computers and IT Equipment                        83.83             7.89              7.38        84.34         77.12             7.38            4.05        73.79           10.55
Dies and jigs                                    741.07           125.08              6.56       859.59        475.31             6.43           74.79       543.67         315.92
Electric installations                            75.04            15.55                –         90.59         72.67               –             1.30        73.97           16.62
Factory equipment                                458.81           103.50              0.82       561.49        269.83             0.78           26.73       295.78         265.71
Furniture                                         46.66             2.10              0.13        48.63         31.91             0.13            3.39        35.17           13.46
Office equipment                                  58.66             3.39              0.14        61.91         42.44             0.14            4.21        46.51           15.40
Electric fittings                                 36.89             3.95              0.17        40.67         28.23             0.17            1.73        29.79           10.88
Vehicles and aircraft                            501.18           539.39            295.62       744.95        281.49           262.33           55.35        74.51         670.44
Total                                          4,468.71       1,295.75             330.63      5,433.83      2,709.11          289.20           252.40     2,672.31       2,761.52


Capital work–in–progress                         77.21            85.02              76.96        85.27             –               –                –            –           85.27




Ageing schedule for Capital work–in–progress

                                         Less than                               More than
Particulars                                 1 year    1-2 years    2-3 years       3 years    Total


Projects in Progress                         84.63         0.64            –             –    85.27
Projects temporarily suspended                    –           –            –             –        –
Total                                       84.63          0.64            –             –    85.27




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited          209
                            Standalone      Consolidated                                                                       Changes
Non-Financials              Financials      Financials            Audit Report         Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss      in Equity             Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
2 Property, plant and equipment (Contd.)
  Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                   Gross block                                                   Depreciation                          Net block
                                                  As at                                           As at          As at                                        As at          As at
                                                1 April                        Deductions/    31 March         1 April                          For the   31 March       31 March
Particulars                                       2021        Additions        adjustments        2022           2021       Deductions            year        2022           2022



Land freehold                                     19.97                –                –         19.97             –               –                –            –           19.97
Land leasehold (Right–of–use assets)              47.28           107.11              1.98       152.41             –               –                –            –         152.41
Buildings                                        976.00             4.30              0.36       979.94        360.79             0.22           21.70       382.27         597.67
Waterpumps, reservoirs and mains                  17.74             0.05                –         17.79         14.30               –             0.76        15.06            2.73
Plant and machinery                            1,368.94            27.35             99.83     1,296.46       1,064.26           89.08           57.60     1,032.78         263.68
Computers and IT Equipment                        84.42             4.67              5.26        83.83         78.36             5.26            4.02        77.12            6.71
Dies and jigs                                    661.18            83.21              3.32       741.07        401.97             3.13           76.47       475.31         265.76
Electric installations                            74.30             0.74                –         75.04         71.44               –             1.23        72.67            2.37
Factory equipment                                439.28            21.29              1.76       458.81        244.02             1.60           27.41       269.83         188.98
Furniture                                         44.47             2.27              0.08        46.66         28.70             0.08            3.29        31.91           14.75
Office equipment                                  54.90             3.95              0.19        58.66         38.72             0.19            3.91        42.44           16.22
Electric fittings                                 36.81             0.33              0.25        36.89         26.69             0.25            1.79        28.23            8.66
Vehicles and aircraft                            356.50           203.35             58.67       501.18        284.59            49.55           46.45       281.49         219.69
Total                                          4,181.79           458.62           171.70      4,468.71      2,613.84          149.36           244.63     2,709.11       1,759.60


Capital work–in–progress                         15.98             74.00             12.77       77.21              –               –                –            –           77.21


Ageing schedule for Capital work–in–progress
                                         Less than                               More than
Particulars                                 1 year    1-2 years    2-3 years       3 years    Total


Projects in Progress                         74.94         0.34            –          1.93    77.21
Projects temporarily suspended                    –           –            –            –         –
Total                                       74.94          0.34            –          1.93    77.21




210           Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                16th Annual Report 2022-23
                          Standalone    Consolidated                                                                      Changes
Non-Financials            Financials    Financials         Audit Report      Balance Sheet           Profit and Loss      in Equity              Cash Flows         Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
3 Investment property
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                      As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                                           2023               2022



Gross carrying amount
Opening balance                                                                                                                                       69.66              69.66
Additions                                                                                                                                                  –                     –
Closing balance                                                                                                                                       69.66              69.66


Accumulated depreciation
Opening balance                                                                                                                                       18.53              17.36
Depreciation charge                                                                                                                                     1.12                1.17
Closing balance                                                                                                                                       19.65              18.53
Net carrying amount                                                                                                                                   50.01               51.13
See note 3 of standalone financial statements for the following disclosures in regard to investment property:
i) Amounts recognised in profit and loss for investment properties
ii) Contractual obligations
iii) Leasing arrangements
iv) Fair value



4 Intangible assets
  Current year
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                               Gross block                                                   Amortisation                            Net block
                                               As at                                        As at           As at                                          As at           As at
                                             1 April                   Deductions/      31 March          1 April                           For the    31 March        31 March
Particulars                                    2022       Additions    adjustments          2023            2022       Deductions             year         2023            2023



Intangible assets
Technical know–how developed/acquired         95.56           35.73              –          131.29         70.24               –             30.35        100.59            30.70
Total Intangible assets                       95.56           35.73              –         131.29          70.24               –             30.35        100.59            30.70


Intangible assets under development               –              –               –              –               –              –                 –             –                 –



      Previous year
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                               Gross block                                                   Amortisation                            Net block
                                               As at                                         As at          As at                                           As at          As at
                                             1 April                   Deductions/       31 March         1 April                           For the     31 March       31 March
Particulars                                    2021       Additions    adjustments           2022           2021       Deductions             year          2022           2022



Intangible assets
Technical know–how developed/acquired         95.56               –              –           95.56         48.26               –             21.98         70.24            25.32
Total Intangible assets                       95.56              –               –          95.56          48.26               –             21.98         70.24            25.32


Intangible assets under development               –              –               –              –               –              –                 –             –                 –




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited            211
                      Standalone        Consolidated                                                            Changes
Non-Financials        Financials        Financials         Audit Report       Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity           Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
5 Investments
                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)

                                                                                              Non–current investments                Current investments
                                                                                                     As at 31 March                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                           2023              2022            2023               2022


(A) Investments in associate of subsidiary
    49,900 shares of Euro 1 each in Pierer Bajaj AG                                               4,884.03         4,063.79                 –                   –
                                                                                                  4,884.03         4,063.79                 –                   –


(B) Other investments
Investment carried at FVTOCI
    In shares                                                                                      2,275.02        1,898.08                 –                   –
Investment carried at amortised cost
    In Government bonds and securities                                                              720.27             857.47          125.58                   –
    In Bonds and debentures                                                                        1,814.88        3,583.73           1,738.10            250.93
    In Fixed deposits                                                                                     –           1,115.00        1,400.00                  –
    In Certificate of deposits                                                                            –                 –         1,143.41                  –
    In Exchange traded funds                                                                       6,900.37         5,515.81                –                   –
    In Fixed maturity plans                                                                          787.74            755.11            12.28        3,903.65


Investment carried at fair value through profit or loss
    In Mutual fund units                                                                           4,219.25         3,876.00            161.98            814.55
                                                                                                  16,717.53       17,601.20           4,581.35           4,969.13
                                                                                                  21,601.56       21,664.99           4,581.35           4,969.13
Notes to Investments
1. See note 5B of standalone financial statements for details of ‘Other investments’.
2. See footnotes to note 5 of standalone financial statements.




6 Loans
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)

                                                                                                      Non-current                          Current
                                                                                                     As at 31 March                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                           2023              2022            2023               2022


Employee loans                                                                                         2.28              4.57             3.62               4.17


                                                                                                       2.28              4.57             3.62               4.17




212       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                     16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone        Consolidated                                                                     Changes
Non-Financials        Financials        Financials          Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss       in Equity            Cash Flows         Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
7 Other financial assets
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non–current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2023               2022                2023               2022


Non–current bank balances [See note 12]                                                                       0.03                0.02                   –                    –
Security deposits                                                                                            33.69               27.04                   –                    –
Interest receivable on investments                                                                                –             34.33             158.97              129.71
Interest receivable on loans, deposits etc.                                                                       –                   –              0.57                   0.55
Valuation gains on derivative hedging instruments                                                                 –                   –                  –             80.53
PSI Receivable                                                                                                    –                   –           263.02              345.78
Other advances                                                                                                    –                   –             50.81              39.69
                                                                                                             33.72               61.39            473.37              596.26
Security deposits include a sum of H 9.92 crore (previous year H 9.92 crore) against use of premises on a Leave License basis, placed with directors and their relatives,
jointly and severally. [see note 41]




8 Other assets
  (Unsecured, good, unless stated otherwise)
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             Non–current                               Current
                                                                                                             As at 31 March                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                  2023               2022                2023               2022


Capital advances                                                                                             40.39             269.73                    –                    –
Security deposits                                                                                              9.29               6.78                   –                    –
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
    Advances to related parties [See note 41]                                                                     –                   –             14.96              11.32
    Other advances                                                                                           26.99               22.94             107.97             115.16
    Doubtful advances                                                                                         4.03                8.13                   –                    –
                                                                                                             31.02               31.07             122.93             126.48
    Provision for doubtful advances                                                                           4.03                8.13                   –                    –
                                                                                                             26.99               22.94             122.93             126.48
Gratuity asset [See note 37]                                                                                   1.03              12.92                   –                    –
VAT refund receivable                                                                                        30.83               39.78                   –            129.66
GST credit/refund receivable                                                                                      –                   –           281.04              507.59
EV subsidy receivable                                                                                             –                   –            110.36              21.06
Export incentives receivable
    Unsecured considered good                                                                                     –                   –             71.27             306.31
    Doubtful                                                                                                      –               0.21                   –                    –
                                                                                                                  –               0.21              71.27             306.31
    Provision for doubtful export incentives                                                                      –               0.21                   –                    –
                                                                                                                  –                   –             71.27             306.31
                                                                                                            108.53             352.15             585.60            1,091.10




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited               213
                   Standalone    Consolidated                                                             Changes
Non-Financials     Financials    Financials         Audit Report   Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss     in Equity              Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
9 Inventories
                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                                          2023               2022



Raw materials and components (includes in transit H 36.90 crore (previous year H 31.13 crore))                                      827.72             591.72
Work-in-progress                                                                                                                     78.18              70.11
Finished goods                                                                                                                      634.05             541.79
Stores, spares and packing material                                                                                                  22.04              25.67
Loose tools                                                                                                                           1.56                1.22
                                                                                                                                  1,563.55         1,230.51

Amount recognised in profit and loss
Write-downs of inventories to net realisable value/reversal of provision for write-down, resulted in net loss/(gain) of H 54.12 crore [Previous
year – H 6.74 crore]. These were recognised as an expense/(income) during the year in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss.

10 Trade receivables
                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)

                                                                                                Non–current                            Current
                                                                                                As at 31 March                       As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                     2023             2022                2023               2022


Unsecured, considered good                                                                          –                 –           1,752.43            1,516.38
Receivables which have significant increase in credit risk                                      43.20            39.66                   –                   –
                                                                                                43.20            39.66            1,752.43            1,516.38
Allowance for bad and doubtful receivable [See note 35 (A)]                                     43.20            39.66                   –                   –
                                                                                                    –                 –           1,752.43            1,516.38


                                                                                Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                   Less than       6 months                                       More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2023                                6 months          - 1 year     1-2 years      2-3 years          3 years             Total


i) Undisputed trade receivables - considered good                    1,737.72           12.13            1.83             0.15           0.60      1,752.43
ii) Undisputed trade receivables - which have significant
increase in credit risk                                                  8.23           3.28             1.78             0.63           2.96           16.88
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                           –               –               –               –                 –             –
iv) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant
increase in credit risk                                                     –            0.13            0.78             2.54         22.87            26.32
                                                                     1,745.95          15.54             4.39             3.32         26.43       1,795.63


                                                                                Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                   Less than       6 months                                       More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                                6 months          - 1 year     1-2 years      2-3 years          3 years             Total


i) Undisputed trade receivables - considered good                    1,484.52          19.45            11.83             0.02           0.56         1,516.38
ii) Undisputed trade receivables - which have significant
increase in credit risk                                                  4.29           0.27             1.86             0.36           2.68             9.46
iii) Disputed trade receivables - considered good                           –               –               –               –                 –             –
iv) Disputed trade receivables - which have significant
increase in credit risk                                                  0.33           0.83             5.27             4.75          19.02           30.20
                                                                     1,489.14          20.55            18.96             5.13         22.26       1,556.04



214     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone         Consolidated                                                                     Changes
Non-Financials        Financials         Financials         Audit Report       Balance Sheet         Profit and Loss      in Equity             Cash Flows          Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
11 Cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                           2023               2022



Balances with banks                                                                                                                                  241.58             933.64
Cash on hand                                                                                                                                           0.04                 0.05
                                                                                                                                                     241.62             933.69


12 Other bank balances
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                                                              Non–current                                Current
                                                                                                              As at 31 March                         As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                   2023                2022                2023               2022



Unclaimed dividend and unspent CSR accounts                                                                         –                  –              66.33              24.37
Deposits with residual maturity for more than twelve months                                                     0.03                0.02                   –                      –
Deposits with residual maturity for less than twelve months                                                         –                  –            382.53                        –
                                                                                                                0.03                0.02            448.86               24.37
Amount disclosed under 'other financial assets' [See note 7]                                                  (0.03)              (0.02)                   –                      –
                                                                                                                    –                  –            448.86               24.37


13 Equity share capital
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                           2023               2022



Authorised
300,000,000 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                                              300.00              300.00
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
282,957,358 equity shares of H 10 each                                                                                                              282.96              289.37
                                                                                                                                                    282.96              289.37



a. Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
                                                                                                         As at 31 March 2023                    As at 31 March 2022
Particulars                                                                                                    Nos.         D In Crore                Nos.         D In Crore



Equity shares
At the beginning of the year                                                                          289,367,020                289.37       289,367,020               289.37
Issued/(bought back) during the year*                                                                   (6,409,662)               (6.41)                   –                      –
Outstanding at the end of the year                                                                    282,957,358                282.96       289,367,020               289.37
*The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 27 June 2022 approved a proposal to buyback fully paid up equity shares of the Company having a face value of H 10 each from the
existing shareholders (except promoters, promoter group and persons in control of the Company) from open market through stock market mechanism (i.e. through National Stock
Exchange of India Ltd. and BSE Ltd.) at a maximum buyback price not exceeding H 4,600 per equity share and maximum buyback size up to H 2,500 crore.
In this regard, the Company bought back 6,409,662 number of equity shares from the stock exchange at a volume weighted average buyback price of H 3,900.31 per share
comprising 2.22% of the pre-buyback number of shares of the Company. The buyback resulted in a cash outflow of H 2,499.97 crore (excluding transaction cost and tax on
buyback). An amount of H 582.39 crore was paid towards tax on buyback. In accordance with relevant statutory provisions, the Company has created a capital redemption
reserve of H 6.41 crore, equal to the nominal value of shares bought back, as an appropriation from retained earnings.
The Buyback Committee of the Company, at its meeting held on 10 October 2022, approved the completion and closure of the buyback.



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited             215
                      Standalone        Consolidated                                                                  Changes
Non-Financials        Financials        Financials          Audit Report      Balance Sheet       Profit and Loss     in Equity           Cash Flows         Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
13 Equity share capital (Contd.)
b. Terms/rights attached to equity shares

    The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of H 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one
    vote per share. The interim dividend declared by the Board of Directors; and the final dividend proposed by the Board of Directors and
    approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting is paid in Indian rupees. In the event of liquidation of the Company,
    the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts.
    The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders..

c. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
                                                                                                     As at 31 March 2023                  As at 31 March 2022
Particulars                                                                                               Nos.         % Holding                Nos.        % Holding



Equity shares of J 10 each fully paid
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                    96,727,050             34.18%        96,727,050             33.43%
Jamnalal Sons Pvt. Ltd.                                                                             26,281,400              9.29%        26,281,400               9.08%
Life Insurance Corporation of India                                                                  15,214,187             5.38%        20,757,508               7.17%


d. Shareholding of promoters
                                                                                                                                                            % change
                                                                                                                                          % of total           during
Promoter name                                                                                                       No. of shares           shares          the year*



For 2022-23
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                                6,020             0.00%              0.00%
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                              200,000              0.07%              0.00%
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                                42,622              0.02%              0.00%
Rajiv Bajaj                                                                                                               754,200              0.27%              0.01%
Sanjiv Bajaj**                                                                                                            327,224              0.12%              0.00%
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                       96,727,050             34.18%              0.75%
*No changes in the number of shares held by the Promoters; However, percentages of holdings have changed pursuant to reduced capital on account of buyback of
6,409,662 equity shares of the Company made during the year.
**Sanjiv Bajaj also holds 1,048,796 shares as Executor for the Estate of Late Shri Rahul Bajaj.

                                                                                                                                                            % change
                                                                                                                                          % of total           during
Promoter name                                                                                                       No. of shares           shares           the year



For 2021–22
Rahulkumar Bajaj*                                                                                                                 –            0.00%            (0.36%)
Shekhar Bajaj                                                                                                                6,020             0.00%              0.00%
Madhur Bajaj                                                                                                              200,000              0.07%            (0.24%)
Niraj Bajaj                                                                                                                42,622              0.01%              0.00%
Rajiv Bajaj**                                                                                                             754,200              0.26%              0.26%
Sanjiv Bajaj**                                                                                                            327,224              0.11%              0.11%
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.                                                                                       96,727,050            33.43%               0.00%
*Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj, one of the promoters of Bajaj Auto Ltd. expired on 12 February 2022. Shares held by Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj in individual capacity,
and previously shown as part of holdings of Promoters, are in the process of transmission. As per regulation 31A (6) of SEBI LODR Regulations, Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj
automatically ceases to be a promoter and his holdings would hereafter be shown under ‘Promoter Group - (Estate of Rahulkumar Bajaj)’ category until his shares are
transmitted to the respective legal heirs, who would all be Promoters/Promoter Group.
**Shri Rajiv Rahulkumar Bajaj and Shri Sanjiv Rahulkumar Bajaj, sons of Late Shri Rahulkumar Bajaj have now succeeded as Promoters and their holdings which earlier
were shown under ‘Promoter Group’ category have got transferred to ‘Promoter’ Category.




216       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                          16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone    Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials        Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
14 Other equity
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            2023               2022



Reserves and surplus:
General reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                             6,389.60          5,887.60
Add: Transferred from surplus in Statement of Profit and Loss                                                              –             502.00
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                   6,389.60        6,389.60


Retained earnings
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                            22,007.52       20,357.85
Profit for the year                                                                                                 6,060.21          6,165.87
Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings
    Actuarial gains/(losses) of gratuity (net of tax)                                                                  (1.58)             13.42
    Adjustments on account of change in share of net assets of associate/subsidiary                                     12.11             23.52
Less: Appropriations
    Transfer to General reserve                                                                                            –             502.00
    Transaction costs on issue of shares                                                                                 1.81                 –
    Share buyback and tax thereon                                                                                    3,087.47                 –
    Recognition of capital redemption reserve                                                                           6.41                  –
    Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2022/2021                                                             4,051.14           4,051.14
Total appropriations                                                                                                 7,146.83         4,553.14
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                  20,931.43       22,007.52


Other reserves:
Cash flow hedging reserve [See note 35]                                                                                    –              54.33
Costs of hedging reserve [See note 35]                                                                                     –               5.93
Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid–up capital                                                            0.29               0.28
Foreign currency translation reserve                                                                                  762.22             460.31
Capital Reserve                                                                                                        63.14              63.14


FVTOCI reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                               626.41              88.43
Net (losses)/gains on FVTOCI equity securities                                                                        300.72             537.98
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                     927.13             626.41


Capital redemption reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                    –                  –
Add: Recognised during the year                                                                                         6.41                  –
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                       6.41                  –




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited        217
                  Standalone        Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials    Financials        Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
14 Other equity (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                       As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                            2023              2022



Share based payment reserve
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                32.27             16.91
Add: Recognised during the year                                                                                         29.82            15.36
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                      62.09             32.27


Treasury shares
Balance as at the beginning of the year                                                                                (69.51)          (32.14)
Add: Changes during the year                                                                                             5.78           (37.37)
Balance as at the end of the year                                                                                     (63.73)           (69.51)
                                                                                                                    29,078.58      29,570.28

Nature and purpose of reserve:

General reserve
General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the
Companies Act, 2013. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.

Retained earnings
Retained earnings is a free reserve. This is the accumulated profit earned by the Company till date, less transfer to general reserve,
dividend and other distributions made to the shareholders.

Cash flow hedging reserve and Costs of hedging reserve
It represents the effective portion of the fair value of forward/option contracts designated as cashflow hedge.

Foreign exchange difference of subsidiary on paid-up capital
This reserve represents the foreign exchange difference due to rate on the date of receipt vis-à-vis date of share certificate issued.

Foreign currency translation reserve
This reserve represents the foreign exchange differences on converting subsidiaries financials into INR, including other adjustments
on consolidation.

FVTOCI reserve
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other comprehensive
income. These changes are accumulated within the FVTOCI reserve within equity.

Capital redemption reserve
As per section 69 of the Companies Act 2013, where a company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium
account, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to the capital redemption reserve account.
The capital redemption reserve account may be applied by the company, in paying up unissued shares of the company to be issued to
members of the company as fully paid bonus shares.

Share based payment reserve
Share based payment reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 ‘Share Based Payments’ on the employee stock option scheme
operated by the Company for its employees.

Treasury shares
The reserve for shares of the Company held by the Bajaj Auto ESOP Trust (ESOP Trust). Company has issued employees stock option
scheme for its employees. The equity shares of the Company have been purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to transfer in the
name of employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.




218     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone        Consolidated                                                                   Changes
Non-Financials        Financials        Financials         Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity            Cash Flows          Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
15 Sales tax deferral
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2023               2022



Unsecured
Sales tax deferral liability/loan, an incentive under Package Scheme of Incentives 1983 and 1993 -
interest free, partially prepaid                                                                                                                 124.23             122.77
                                                                                                                                                 124.23             122.77
The exemption of interest on the sales tax liability deferred for payment is considered as a Government grant and measured at an internal rate of return available for
pre-payment of the liability as per the sales tax rules. [See note 35]



16 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)

                                                                                                            Non–current                              Current
                                                                                                           As at 31 March                         As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                 2023               2022               2023               2022



Provision for employee benefits
[See note 37]
Provision for gratuity                                                                                       0.37                   –                   –                   –
Provision for compensated absences                                                                               –                  –            135.00             127.56
Provision for welfare scheme                                                                                 0.87                1.30               0.49                 0.56
                                                                                                              1.24               1.30            135.49             128.12
Other provisions
Provision for warranties [See footnote to note 16 of
standalone financial statements]                                                                                 –                  –             30.98              25.63
                                                                                                              1.24               1.30            166.47             153.75


17 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2023               2022



Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                         429.16             480.23
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                               84.01                  77.55
                                                                                                                                                 345.15             402.68
See note 17 of standalone financial statements for detailed break-up of deferred tax liabilities/assets and movement in deferred taxes.



18 Other non-current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                                  As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                       2023               2022



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                                                        0.19                 0.30
                                                                                                                                                    0.19                 0.30




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited             219
                      Standalone         Consolidated                                                                Changes
Non-Financials        Financials         Financials         Audit Report       Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss    in Equity           Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
19 Trade payables
                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                             As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                  2023               2022



Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises                                                                           278.26             150.64
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises                                                    3,842.92         3,481.51
                                                                                                                                           4,121.18           3,632.15



                                                                                                  Dues - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                                  Less than           1-2          2-3    More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2023                                   Unbilled        Not due        1 year         years        years      3 years             Total



(i) Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)                             –        278.26              –           –            –                –        278.26
(ii) Others                                                              949.65       2,444.29       443.61          2.81         0.47           2.09      3,842.92
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME                                                     –              –            –            –            –                –               –
(iv) Disputed dues – Others                                                    –              –            –            –            –                –               –
                                                                         949.65       2,722.55       443.61          2.81         0.47           2.09         4,121.18



                                                                                                  Dues - Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment

                                                                                                  Less than           1-2          2-3    More than
Ageing schedule as at 31 March 2022                                   Unbilled        Not due        1 year         years        years      3 years             Total



(i) Micro enterprises and small enterprises (MSME)                             –        150.64              –           –            –                –        150.64
(ii) Others                                                              830.51       2,321.70        322.15         3.11         0.69           3.35      3,481.51
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME                                                     –              –             –           –            –                –               –
(iv) Disputed dues – Others                                                    –              –            –            –            –                –               –
                                                                         830.51       2,472.34        322.15         3.11         0.69           3.35       3,632.15


20 Other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                             As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                  2023               2022



Security deposits                                                                                                                            27.35               27.11
Unclaimed dividend                                                                                                                           28.55              24.37
Directors' remuneration and commission payable                                                                                               32.02               17.57
Employee benefits payable                                                                                                                   161.67             192.77
Other payables                                                                                                                              214.50             135.18
                                                                                                                                            464.09             397.00
Refer note 34 of financial statements for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.




220       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials       Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
21 Other current liabilities
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2023               2022



Annuity payable to VRS/Welfare scheme optees                                                                              0.06              0.27
Advance received from customers                                                                                        235.14             301.92
Taxes and duties payable                                                                                               118.70              97.31
Other payables                                                                                                         138.71              79.30
                                                                                                                       492.61             478.80


22 Revenue from operations
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2023               2022



Revenue from operations
Revenue from contracts with customers
Sale of products*                                                                                                   35,391.52          32,135.98
Other operating revenue
Scrap sales                                                                                                              28.74             29.25
Export incentives                                                                                                      469.33             551.27
PSI                                                                                                                     45.04              30.50
Royalty                                                                                                                231.95             174.58
Technical know how fees                                                                                                      –              2.65
Rent [See note 40 of standalone financial statements]                                                                   30.63              26.67
Insurance claims                                                                                                          1.19              0.49
Miscellaneous receipts                                                                                                 163.52              91.86
Government grants                                                                                                         2.65              2.65
Interest income on financial services to dealers                                                                        90.81              98.81
                                                                                                                     1,063.86           1,008.73
                                                                                                                    36,455.38          33,144.71

*This includes Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME)–II subsidy receivable on sale of eligible products from
Central and State Government amounting to H 182.62 crore (31 March 2022: H 35.24 crore).


Revenue from contracts with customers (Goods transferred at a point in time)
India                                                                                                               20,928.61          15,201.89
Outside India                                                                                                       14,462.91          16,934.09
Total revenue from contracts with customers                                                                         35,391.52          32,135.98


Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with the contracted price
Revenue as per contracted price                                                                                     35,709.23          32,407.71
Adjustments:
      Cash discounts and target incentives                                                                            (309.62)           (242.90)
      Sales promotion expenses                                                                                          (8.09)            (28.83)
Revenue from contracts with customers                                                                               35,391.52          32,135.98



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited         221
                   Standalone    Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials     Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
23 Other income
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                   For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                              2023                2022



Investment income
Interest income on fixed income securities                                                                              306.99             275.05
Amortisation of (premium)/discount on acquisition of fixed income securities                                             (2.00)             (17.67)
Interest income on fixed deposits                                                                                        63.85               36.42
Interest income on exchange traded funds                                                                                344.56             204.68
Interest income on fixed maturity plans                                                                                  39.55              388.93
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost                                                                 752.95              887.41


Dividend income on other strategic investments                                                                            47.25              45.50


Gain on valuation and realisation of mutual funds measured at FVTPL                                                     177.67              224.47
Profit on sale of other investments, net                                                                                      –              74.90
                                                                                                                        977.87           1,232.28
Others
Surplus on sale of property, plant and equipment                                                                        111.56               21.59
Tax refunds/credits                                                                                                           –                    –
Gains on exchange fluctuations                                                                                           98.09               30.27
                                                                                                                        209.65               51.86


                                                                                                                       1,187.52           1,284.14


24 Changes in inventories
                                                                                                                                        (H In Crore)
                                                                                                          For the year ended 31 March
                                                                                                                                   (Increase)/
Particulars                                                                                             2023             2022        decrease



Inventories at the end of the year                                                                       78.18            70.11              (8.07)
Work-in-progress                                                                                       634.05           541.79             (92.26)
Finished goods                                                                                         712.23            611.90           (100.33)


Inventories at the beginning of the year                                                                 70.11           85.50               15.39
Work-in-progress                                                                                       541.79           714.36              172.57
Finished goods                                                                                          611.90          799.86              187.96
                                                                                                      (100.33)           187.96




222      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                       Standalone   Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials         Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
25 Employee benefits expense
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2023             2022



Salaries, wages and bonus to employees                                                                             1,283.01          1,174.30
Contribution to provident and other funds                                                                             89.59            92.03
Share based payment to employees                                                                                      29.82            15.36
Staff welfare expenses                                                                                                82.05             81.10
                                                                                                                   1,484.47          1,362.79
[See note 37 and 41]



26 Finance costs
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2023             2022



Interest expense                                                                                                      38.05               7.35
Interest adjustment on Government grant                                                                                 1.46              1.31
                                                                                                                       39.51              8.66


27 Depreciation and amortisation expense
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2023             2022



Depreciation on property, plant and equipment                                                                        252.40           244.63
Depreciation on investment property                                                                                     1.12              1.17
Amortisation of technical know-how                                                                                    30.35            21.98
Amortisation of leasehold land                                                                                          1.98              1.98
                                                                                                                     285.85           269.76




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                      Bajaj Auto Limited        223
                  Standalone      Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials    Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
28 Other expenses
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2023             2022



Stores and tools consumed                                                                                            154.90           132.43
Power, fuel and water                                                                                                122.60           108.01
Rent                                                                                                                   17.22           17.66
Repairs to buildings                                                                                                  52.09            38.42
Repairs to machinery                                                                                                 106.60           105.59
Other repairs                                                                                                         20.54             17.62
Insurance                                                                                                             12.36            11.03
Rates and taxes                                                                                                       14.03            17.50
Payment to auditor                                                                                                      2.03              2.17
Directors' fees and travelling expenses                                                                                 1.05              0.93
Commission to non–executive directors                                                                                   2.58              2.28
Travelling expenses                                                                                                   45.84            12.24
Miscellaneous expenses                                                                                               549.29           490.63
Loss on exchange fluctuations                                                                                           0.40                  –
Packing material consumed                                                                                            409.42           542.22
Freight and forwarding expenses                                                                                      194.53           269.84
Advertisement                                                                                                        371.19           168.06
Vehicle service charges and other expenses                                                                           164.91           103.39
Sales promotion expenses                                                                                              30.50            43.01
Contribution to electoral bonds                                                                                         5.00                  –
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities                                                 124.99           128.00
Bad debts and other irrecoverable debit balances written off                                                            5.98              0.02
Loss on property, plant and equipment sold, demolished, discarded and scrapped                                         14.11              8.88
Provision for doubtful debts and advances (includes expected credit loss on trade receivables)                          4.79           (4.44)
                                                                                                                   2,426.95         2,215.49




224     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone      Consolidated                                                                Changes
Non-Financials        Financials      Financials        Audit Report      Balance Sheet       Profit and Loss     in Equity           Cash Flows         Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
Expenditure towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                 2023              2022



a) Details of spends
    i)   Gross amount required to be spent by the Group during the year                                                                    124.99            128.00
    ii) Amount of expenditure incurred                                                                                                     124.99            128.00
    iii) Shortfall at the end of the year                                                                                                        –                   –
    iv) Total of previous years shortfall                                                                                                        –                   –
    v) Reason for shortfall                                                                                                                    NA                   NA
    vi) Nature of CSR activities
              Poverty, Health, Sanitation, Water                                                                                             7.24             35.58
              Education, Special Education, Vocation, Livelihoods                                                                           22.93             22.31
              Environment, Soil And Water, Protection of Flora and fauna                                                                     9.88                8.58
              Heritage, Art, Culture, Handicrafts, Public Libraries                                                                          0.23                0.28
              Veterans, War Widows, Dependents                                                                                                   –               1.00
              Rural Development                                                                                                              4.79                4.38
              Gender/Women, Orphans, Homes and Hostels, Day Care                                                                             1.90                3.18
              Others (including provision for unspent)                                                                                      78.02             52.69
              Total                                                                                                                        124.99            128.00
              No funds relating to other than identified and ongoing projects are required to be
              transferred to specified funds.


b) Amount spent in cash during the year on:
    i)   Construction/acquisition of any asset                                                                                                   –                   –
    ii) On purposes other than (i) above                                                                                                   124.99            128.00
                                                                                                                                           124.99            128.00


29 Exceptional items
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                                    For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                                 2023              2022



PSI scheme                                                                                                                                       –         (315.28)
Gain on fair valuation of investment                                                                                                             –         (501.23)
                                                                                                                                                 –          (816.51)
PSI scheme: This is amount receivable from State Government of Maharashtra under Package Scheme of Incentive 2007 (PSI), for the period April 2015 to March 2021.
Gain on fair valuation of investment: Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIHBV), a 100% subsidiary of the parent Company, held 47.99% stake in KTM AG.
BAIHBV, as on 29 September 2021, swapped 46.50% stake in KTM AG for 49.90% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG. The resultant gain in fair value of H 501.23 crore is shown
as an exceptional item.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                         Bajaj Auto Limited            225
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials       Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
30 Tax expense
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                  For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                             2023             2022



(a) Tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year                                                                                  1,854.89          1,667.11


Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets                                                                               (5.91)          (2.93)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities                                                                        (67.21)        (178.37)
Total deferred tax expenses/(benefit)                                                                                  (73.12)         (181.30)


Tax expenses                                                                                                          1,781.77        1,485.81


(b) Reconciliation of tax expenses and the accounting profit multiplied by India's tax rate
Profit before tax                                                                                                     7,841.98        7,651.68
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (Previous year – 25.168%)                                                      1,973.69         1,925.78
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Corporate social responsibility expenditure and contribution to electoral bonds                                 32.72            32.22
    –   Rate difference in amortisation of fixed income securities                                                      (3.78)           (4.68)
    –   Others                                                                                                            8.23              4.88


Tax effect of amounts which are deductible (non taxable) in calculating taxable income:
    –   Profits of subsidiaries not taxable in India                                                                  (109.08)        (290.18)
    –   Dividend received on strategic investment                                                                      (11.89)          (11.45)
    –   Profit on investments not taxable                                                                              (40.97)        (109.48)
    –   Income from fair valuation of mutual funds                                                                     (67.24)          (60.51)
    –   Disallowance of expenditure incurred on rented property (net)                                                     0.09           (0.77)
Tax expense                                                                                                           1,781.77        1,485.81




226     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                          Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials       Audit Report    Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
31 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
                                                                                                                       For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                                  2023             2022



a. Profit for the year (H In Crore)                                                                                       6,060.21          6,165.87
    Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                                285,418,164     289,367,020
    Less: Weighted average number of shares held by ESOP Trust i.e. Treasury shares (Nos)                                  211,530          221,458
    Net weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year (Nos)                                            285,206,634     289,145,562
b. Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) H                                                                                   212.5           213.2
    Face value per share H                                                                                                     10.0              10.0


32 Notes to these consolidated financial statements are intended to serve as a means of informative disclosure and a guide to better
    understanding of the consolidated position of the companies. Recognising this purpose, the Company has disclosed only such
    notes from the individual financial statements, which fairly present the needed disclosures.


33 Ratios
                                                                                                                        For the year ended 31 March

Particulars                           Remarks                     Numerator                   Denominator                     2023            2022



(a) Current ratio                                                 Current assets              Current liabilities               1.83             2.21
(b) Debt equity ratio                 Not applicable
(c) Debt service coverage ratio       Not applicable
(d) Return on equity ratio                                        Profit after tax            Avg. net worth                  20.5%           21.6%
(e) Inventory turnover ratio                                      Material cost               Avg. inventory                   18.70          17.86
(f) Trade receivables                 Change is due to            Revenue from contracts      Avg. trade receivables          21.65            15.18
    turnover ratio                    reduction in avg. trade     with customers
                                      receivables
(g) Trade payables turnover ratio Change is due to increase Purchases                         Trade payables                    6.90             7.23
                                  in material cost
(h) Net capital turnover ratio         Increase is due to         Total income                Avg. working capital              7.49             4.84
                                      reduction in current
                                      assets and increase in
                                      trade payables
(i) Net profit ratio                                              Profit after tax            Total income                    16.1%           17.9%
(j) Return on capital employed                                    Profit before tax           Avg. capital employed           26.0%           26.2%
(k) Return on investments                                         Profit before tax           Avg. net worth                  26.5%           26.8%




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                             Bajaj Auto Limited        227
                     Standalone   Consolidated                                                            Changes
Non-Financials       Financials   Financials     Audit Report       Balance Sheet       Profit and Loss   in Equity          Cash Flows    Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
34 Fair value measurement
i)   Financial instruments by category
                                                                                                                                           (H In Crore)

                                                                    31 March 2023                                         31 March 2022
                                                                                          Amortised                                       Amortised
Particulars                                             FVTPL              FVTOCI              Cost            FVTPL           FVTOCI          Cost



Financial assets
Investments
     –   Equity                                                 –         2,275.02                  –                 –        1,898.08              –
     –   Bonds and debentures                                   –                   –        3,552.98                 –              –      3,834.66
     –   Government bonds and securities                        –                   –         845.85                  –              –        857.47
     –   Certificate of Deposit                                 –                   –        1,143.41                 –              –               –
     –   Fixed maturity plans                                   –                   –         800.02                  –              –      4,658.76
     –   Exchange traded funds                                  –                   –        6,900.37                 –              –      5,515.81
     –   Fixed deposits                                         –                   –       1,400.00                  –              –       1,115.00
     –   Short-term funds                             4,219.25                      –               –        3,089.61                –               –
     –   Long duration bond funds                               –                   –               –          786.39                –               –
     –   Liquid mutual funds                            161.98                      –               –          814.55                –               –
Trade receivables                                               –                   –        1,752.43                 –              –      1,516.38
Loans                                                           –                   –            5.90                 –              –             8.74
Other financial assets                                          –                   –         507.09                  –              –         577.12
Cash and cash equivalents                                       –                   –          241.62                 –              –        933.69
Other bank balances                                             –                   –         448.86                  –              –          24.37
Derivative financial assets                                     –                   –               –                 –          80.53               –
                                                      4,381.23            2,275.02          17,598.53        4,690.55          1,978.61    19,042.00


Financial liabilities
Sales tax deferral                                              –                   –         124.23                  –              –        122.77
Trade payables                                                  –                   –        4,121.18                 –              –      3,632.15
Other financial liabilities                                     –                   –         464.09                  –              –        397.00
                                                                –                   –        4,709.50                 –              –       4,151.92




228      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                               16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone   Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials      Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows    Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
34 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
ii) Fair value hierarchy

   This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are
   (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the
   financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the Group has
   classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation of each level
   follows underneath the table.

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements At 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                        Notes             Level 1         Level 2         Level 3            Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
   –   Short-term funds                                              5              4,219.25                 –             –          4,219.25
   –   Liquid mutual funds                                           5                161.98                 –             –           161.98
Financial investments at FVTOCI
   –   Equity investment                                             5             2,072.04           202.98               –       2,275.02
                                                                                   6,453.27           202.98               –       6,656.25

Assets disclosed at fair value - At 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                        Notes             Level 1         Level 2         Level 3            Total



Investment property                                                  3                     –          223.09               –           223.09

Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements At 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                        Notes            Level 1          Level 2         Level 3            Total



Financial investments at FVTPL
   –   Short-term mutual funds                                       5              3,089.61                 –             –          3,089.61
   –   Long duration bond funds                                      5               786.39                  –             –           786.39
   –   Liquid mutual funds                                           5               814.55                  –             –           814.55
Financial investments at FVTOCI
   –   Derivatives designated as hedges
              Option contracts                                       7                     –           80.53               –            80.53
   –   Equity investment                                             5              1,753.87                 –        144.21       1,898.08
                                                                                   6,444.42            80.53          144.21          6,669.16
Assets disclosed at fair value - At 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
Particulars                                                        Notes            Level 1          Level 2         Level 3            Total



Investment property                                                  3                     –          223.03               –           223.03




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited      229
                      Standalone         Consolidated                                                                     Changes
Non-Financials        Financials         Financials         Audit Report       Balance Sheet         Profit and Loss      in Equity             Cash Flows         Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
34 Fair value measurement (Contd.)
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets. Quotes would include
rates/values/valuation references published periodically by BSE, NSE etc. basis which trades take place in a linked or unlinked active
market. This includes traded bonds and mutual funds, as the case may be, that have quoted price/rate/value.

Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market are determined using valuation techniques
which maximise the use of observable market data (either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices) and rely as little as
possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is
included in level 2.

Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. This is
the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.

Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value

Valuation Techniques used to determine fair value include

• Open ended mutual funds at NAV’s/rates declared and/or quoted

• Derivative Instruments at values determined by counter parties/Banks using market observable data.
iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
                                                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

                                                                                                             31 March 2023                          31 March 2022
                                                                                                          Carrying                               Carrying
Particulars                                                                                                Amount           Fair value            Amount           Fair value



Financial assets
Investments
Bonds and debentures                                                                                       3,552.98           3,458.40            3,834.66            3,797.62
Government bonds and securities                                                                              845.85              811.01             857.47              838.71
Fixed maturity plans                                                                                         800.02             778.99            4,658.76           4,636.65
Exchange traded funds                                                                                      6,900.37            6,710.97           5,515.81           5,482.98
                                                                                                         12,099.22           11,759.37          14,866.70           14,755.96
The carrying amounts of certificate of deposits, fixed deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, other financial assets/liabilities, loans and cash and cash equivalents are
considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.




230       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                              16th Annual Report 2022-23
                 Standalone      Consolidated                                                       Changes
Non-Financials   Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet      Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
35 Financial risk management

The Group’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk (including foreign exchange risk). In order to minimise
any adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group, derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward
contracts and foreign currency option contracts are entered to hedge certain foreign currency risk exposures. Derivatives are used
exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or speculative instruments.

This note explains the sources of risk which the Group is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the impact of hedge
accounting in the financial statements.

Risk              Exposure arising from                        Measurement            Management



                  Cash and cash equivalents, financial assets Credit ratings          Diversification of counterparties, diversification of
                  measured at amortised cost and fair value                           investment limits, monitoring of counterparties basis
                  through profit or loss                                              credit rating
Credit Risk
                  Derivative financial instruments             Credit ratings         Deal with reputed banks holding high credit risk rating
                  Trade receivables                            Credit limit and       No. of overdue days, monitoring of credit limits
                                                               ageing analysis
Liquidity Risk    Other liabilities                            Maturity analysis      Maintaining sufficient cash/cash equivalents and
                                                                                      marketable securities
Market Risk-      Highly probable forecast transactions and    Sensitivity analysis Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign
Foreign           financial assets and liabilities not                              currency options
Exchange          denominated in INR

The Board of Directors provide guiding principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as
foreign exchange risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of
available funds. The Group’s risk management is carried out by a treasury department as per such policies approved by the Board of
Directors. Accordingly, Group’s treasury department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.

A) Credit risk

Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty may default on its contractual obligations leading to a financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk primarily arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, financial assets measured at amortised
cost, financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and trade receivables. None of the financial instruments of the
Group result in material concentration of credit risk.

Credit risk management

For Derivative instruments exposures are extended with multiple banks holding high credit risk ratings.

In regard to Trade receivables, which are typically unsecured, credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit
limits and continuously monitoring the credit worthiness of customers to whom credit is extended in the normal course of business.
The Group follows a ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables. Accordingly, impairment
loss allowance is recognised based on lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
The provision rates are based on days past due; and the calculation reflects the probability weighted outcome, the time value of
money and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and
forecasts of future economic conditions.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited         231
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
35 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure of the Group’s trade receivables using provision matrix:
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As on 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2023               2022



Estimated total gross carrying amount                                                                              1,795.63       1,556.04
ECL                                                                                                                   43.20             39.66
Net carrying amount                                                                                                1,752.43           1,516.38


Reconciliation of impairment allowance – Trade receivable
Particulars                                                                                                                    (J In Crore)



Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2021                                                                                                44.10
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                               (4.44)
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2022                                                                                                39.66
Changes in loss allowance                                                                                                                3.54
Impairment allowance as on 31 March 2023                                                                                                43.20

For other financial assets, the Group has an investment policy which allows the Group to invest only with counterparties having a
credit rating equal to or above AA+ and A1+. The Group reviews the creditworthiness of these counterparties on an on-going basis.
Counter party limits maybe updated as and when required, subject to approval of Board of Directors.

B) Liquidity risk

The Group’s principal source of liquidity are ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and cash flows that are generated from operations.
The Group believes that its working capital is sufficient to meet the financial liabilities within maturity period. The Group has no
outstanding term borrowings except sales tax deferral liability amounting to H 124.23 crore which are interest free and are
repayable after 10 years from the Balance Sheet date. Additionally, the Group has invested its surplus funds in fixed income
securities or instruments of similar profile thereby ensuring safety of capital and availability of liquidity as and when required.
Hence the Group carries a negligible liquidity risk.
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2023               2022



The Company had
Net working capital funds                                                                                          4,379.66           5,677.11
which includes;
      i)   Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                 241.62            933.69
      ii) Current investments                                                                                      4,581.35           4,969.13




232        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                 16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity              Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
35 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The table below summarises the contractual maturities of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2022:
Maturities of financial liabilities
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)
                                                                                                        Less than
                                                                                                        and equal         More than
Particulars                                                                                              to 1 year           1 year           Total



As on 31 March 2023
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                                     –         124.23         124.23
Trade payables                                                                                                4,121.18                –     4,121.18
Other financial liabilities                                                                                    464.09                 –      464.09
                                                                                                          4,585.27            124.23       4,709.50


As on 31 March 2022
Non-derivatives
Sales tax deferral (discounted)                                                                                     –         122.77         122.77
Trade payables                                                                                            3,632.15                    –    3,632.15
Other financial liabilities                                                                                    397.00                 –      397.00
                                                                                                              4,029.15        122.77        4,151.92


C) Market risk

(i) Foreign currency risk

The Group has significant exports and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions,
primarily with respect to the USD. Foreign exchange risk arises from highly probable forecast transactions and recognised assets
and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Group’s functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through sensitivity
analysis. The primary objective for forex hedging against anticipated foreign currency risks will be to hedge the Group’s highly
probable foreign currency cash flows arising from such transactions (thus reducing volatility of cash flow and profit).

The Group’s risk management policy permits the use of plain foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency option
contracts including Foreign Currency - INR Option Cost Reduction Structures to hedge forecasted sales.

The Group also imports certain materials the value of which is not material as compared to value of exports. Currently, Group does
not hedge this exposure. Nevertheless, Group may wish to hedge such exposures.

The Group uses a combination of foreign currency option contracts and foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its exposure
in foreign currency risk. The Group designates forward contracts in entirety and intrinsic value of foreign currency option contracts
as the hedging instrument. To the extent these hedges are effective; the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised
through other comprehensive income in the ‘Cash flow hedging reserve’ within equity. The change in time value that relate to the
hedged item (aligned time value) is recognised through other comprehensive income in ‘Costs of hedging reserve’ within equity.
Amount recognised in equity is reclassified to consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss when the hedged item (i.e. forecasted export
sales) affects consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. The ineffective portion of change in fair value of the hedging instrument and
any residual time value (the non-aligned portion), if any, is recognised in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss immediately.

The intrinsic value of foreign exchange option contracts is determined with reference to the relevant spot market exchange rate.
The differential between the contracted strike rate and the spot market exchange rate is defined as the intrinsic value.
Time value of the option is the difference between fair value of the option and the intrinsic value.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                          Bajaj Auto Limited            233
                  Standalone    Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials    Financials    Financials      Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity          Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
35 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The fair values (Marked-to-market / MTM) of foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as on 31 March 2023 and
31 March 2022 are as follows:

                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)

                                                                                  As at 31 March 2023                As at 31 March 2022
                                                                                 Notional In      MTM Gain/   Notional In           MTM Gain/
For export transactions:                                                       USD Mn (Sell)         (Loss) USD Mn (Sell)              (Loss)


Foreign currency derivative designated as hedging instruments –
options contracts                                                                          –                  –        1,326.00              80.53
                                                                                           –                  –        1,326.00              80.53
For import transactions: NIL
Open exposure

The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the end of the reporting period are as follows
                                                                                                                                    (USD Million)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March

                                                                                                                          2023               2022


Receivables                                                                                                               70.26              94.68
Payables                                                                                                                    7.23              8.05
Others (EEFC balances)                                                                                                      3.98             64.50


Sensitivity analysis

The following table demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant. The impact on other components of equity arises from the changes in fair value of the foreign exchange option contracts
designated as cash flow hedges.
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                          As at 31 March

Impact on other components of equity                                                                                      2023               2022


USD Sensitivity
INR/USD Increase by 5% (Previous year 5%)                                                                                      –           (185.07)
INR/USD Decrease by 5% (Previous year 5%)                                                                                      –            329.99

Maturity of outstanding contracts

The details in respect of the maturity of outstanding foreign exchange option contracts are given below
                                                                                                                                      (H In Crore)

                                                                                   As at 31 March 2023                As at 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                       Notional
                                                                                 Notional In      MTM Gain/          In USD Mn      MTM Gain/
On export transactions:                                                        USD Mn (Sell)         (Loss)               (Sell)       (Loss)


Not later than three months                                                                 –                 –          331.50              23.05
Later than three months and not later than six months                                       –                 –          331.50              24.94
Later than six months and not later than one year                                           –                 –          663.00              32.54
                                                                                            –                 –        1,326.00              80.53
On import transactions: NIL




234     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
                     Standalone        Consolidated                                                                   Changes
Non-Financials       Financials        Financials         Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss      in Equity            Cash Flows   Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
35 Financial risk management (Contd.)
Impact of hedging activities

(a) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial position:

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                               Carrying amount                          Changes in fair           Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal          of hedging               Hedge           value of hedging          item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value            instrument               ratio*          instrument                recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                                   –                        –            N.A.                  (72.60)                                 72.60
                                                           –                        –                                  (72.60)                                 72.60

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                                               Carrying amount                          Changes in fair           Change in the value of hedged
                                              Nominal          of hedging               Hedge           value of hedging          item used as a basis for
Particulars                                   value            instrument               ratio*          instrument                recognising hedge effectiveness



Foreign currency options                        10,050.09                     72.60               1:1                (126.38)                                126.38
                                                10,050.09                     72.60                                  (126.38)                                126.38
 * The foreign exchange option contracts are denominated in the same currency as the highly probable future sales, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1.


(b) Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting on financial performance

Cash flow hedge 31 March 2023
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                   Change in the value of                 Hedge                         Amount reclassified          Line item affected in
                                   the hedging instrument                 ineffectiveness               from cash flow               the Statement of Profit
                                   recognised in other                    recognised in profit          hedging reserve to           and Loss because of the
Particulars                        comprehensive income                   or loss                       profit or loss               reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                               (72.60)                             –                      (25.63)                        Revenue
                                                                (72.60)                             –                      (25.63)

Cash flow hedge foreign exchange risk 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                                         (H In Crore)
                                   Change in the value of                 Hedge                         Amount reclassified          Line item affected in
                                   the hedging instrument                 ineffectiveness               from cash flow               the Statement of Profit
                                   recognised in other                    recognised in profit          hedging reserve to           and Loss because of the
Particulars                        comprehensive income                   or loss                       profit or loss               reclassification



Foreign exchange risk –
Options contracts                                              (126.38)                             –                       83.97                         Revenue
                                                               (126.38)                             –                       83.97




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited      235
                   Standalone     Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials     Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows    Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
35 Financial risk management (Contd.)
The Group enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the
hedged item, so a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. During the years ended 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2022,
the Group did not have any hedging instruments with terms which were not aligned with those of the hedged items.

Therefore, no ineffectiveness is recognised in the consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss during the years ended
31 March 2023 and 31 March 2022.

Movements in cash flow hedging reserve and costs of hedging reserve
                                                                                                                               (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        Foreign Currency
                                                                                                                            Risk Foreign
Derivative Instrument                                                                                                   exchange options



(i) Cash flow hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                     148.90
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                        (42.41)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                       (83.97)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                            31.81
Balance – As at 31 March 2022                                                                                                      54.33
Add: Change in intrinsic value of foreign currency options                                                                        (98.23)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                         25.63
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                            18.27
Balance – As at 31 March 2023                                                                                                            –


(ii) Costs of hedging reserve
Balance – As at 31 March 2021                                                                                                    (58.06)
Less: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                              86.61
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                         (1.09)
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                          (21.53)
Balance – As at 31 March 2022                                                                                                          5.93
Add: Change in time value of foreign currency options                                                                             (21.48)
Less: Amount reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                         13.56
Deferred tax relating to the above (net)                                                                                               1.99
Balance – As at 31 March 2023                                                                                                            –


(ii) Other risks

The Group has deployed its surplus funds into various financial instruments including units of mutual funds, bonds, fixed maturity
plans etc. The Group is exposed to price risk on such investments, which arises on account of movement in interest rates, liquidity
and credit quality of underlying securities.

The Group has invested its surplus funds primarily in debt based mutual funds and fixed maturity plans. The value of investment
in these mutual fund schemes is reflected though Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the Asset Management Company on daily
basis. The Group has not performed a sensitivity analysis on these mutual funds based on estimated fluctuations in their NAV as in
management’s opinion, such analysis would not display a correct picture.




236     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone     Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials      Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
36 Capital management
Objectives, policies and processes of capital management

The Group is cash surplus and has no capital other than Equity. The Group is not exposed to any regulatory imposed capital
requirements.

The cash surpluses are currently invested in income generating debt instruments (including through mutual funds) and money
market instruments depending on economic conditions in line with the guidelines set out by the Management. Safety of capital is of
prime importance to ensure availability of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate return on the
surplus funds.

The Group does not have any borrowings and does not borrow funds unless circumstances require.

                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                          2023               2022



Equity                                                                                                            29,361.55      29,859.66
Less: Tangible and other assets                                                                                   3,380.33            2,517.56
         Working capital (excluding investment)                                                                    (201.69)            707.98
         Investments in subsidiaries/associate                                                                    4,884.03        4,063.79
Investments in debt and similar investments                                                                      21,298.88       22,570.33
No changes were made in the objectives, policies and processes of capital management during the year.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited        237
                   Standalone      Consolidated                                                      Changes
Non-Financials     Financials      Financials       Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits
Liability for employee benefits has been determined by an actuary, appointed for the purpose, in conformity with the principles set
out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.
Funded schemes
Gratuity
The Group provides for gratuity payments to employees. The gratuity benefit payable to the employees of the Group is greater
of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Group’s gratuity scheme. Employees who are in continuous service
for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Group makes contributions to approved
gratuity fund.
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2023               2022



Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation (DBO)                                                               472.92             477.07
Fair value of plan assets                                                                                             (505.15)           (521.52)
Net funded obligation                                                                                                  (32.23)           (44.45)
Amount not recognised due to asset ceiling                                                                               31.57             31.53
Net defined benefit liability/(asset) recognised in balance sheet                                                       (0.66)           (12.92)


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                                     26.79             28.73
Interest on net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                        (2.74)            (2.81)
Total expense charged to statement of profit and loss                                                                   24.05              25.92


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                   54.34              71.95
Remeasurements during the period due to
    Changes in financial assumptions                                                                                    (6.30)            (14.50)
    Changes in demographic assumptions                                                                                       –            (15.75)
    Experience adjustments                                                                                               (1.51)            10.72
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                            12.20              3.76
    Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                                 (2.25)             (1.84)
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                   56.48             54.34

                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                        As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                             2023               2022



Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                           (12.92)           (16.34)
    Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                      24.05             25.92
    Amount recognised outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                2.14            (17.61)
    Employer contributions                                                                                              (13.93)            (4.89)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                           (0.66)           (12.92)




238      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                    Standalone    Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials      Financials    Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)

                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                         2023              2022



Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                                              477.07            490.00
Current service cost                                                                                                26.79             28.73
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                                              30.57             30.25
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in financial assumptions                                              (6.30)           (14.50)
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from change in demographic assumptions                                                –            (15.75)
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience changes                                                  (1.51)            10.72
Benefits paid                                                                                                      (53.70)           (52.38)
Closing of defined benefit obligation                                                                              472.92            477.07

                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                         2023              2022



Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                                                  521.52            537.58
Employer contributions                                                                                              13.93              4.89
Interest on plan assets                                                                                             35.60             35.18
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                      (12.20)            (3.75)
Benefits paid                                                                                                      (53.70)           (52.38)
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                                                  505.15            521.52

                                                                                                                                (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                    As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                         2023              2022



Disaggregation of assets
Category of assets
Insurer managed funds                                                                                              505.15            521.52
Others                                                                                                                  –                 –
                                                                                                                   505.15            521.52




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited       239
                    Standalone   Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials      Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows    Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
Sensitivity Analysis

Gratuity is a lump sum plan and the cost of providing these benefits is typically less sensitive to small changes in demographic
assumptions. The key actuarial assumptions to which the benefit obligation results are particularly sensitive to are discount rate and
future salary escalation rate. The following table summarises the impact in percentage terms on the reported defined benefit obligation
(DBO) at the end of the reporting period arising on account of an increase or decrease in the reported assumption by 50 basis points.

                                                                                  As at 31 March 2023               As at 31 March 2022
                                                                                                     Salary                        Salary
                                                                                   Discount       escalation        Discount    escalation
Particulars                                                                            rate             rate            rate          rate



Senior staff
   Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                               (3.09%)           3.18%          (3.25%)        (3.34%)
   Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                3.28%          (3.03%)          (3.44%)        (3.18%)
Junior staff
   Impact of increase in 50 bps on DBO                                               (3.21%)           3.40%          (3.10%)        (3.26%)
   Impact of decrease in 50 bps on DBO                                                3.50%           (3.16%)         (3.36%)        (3.04%)

These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in defined benefit obligation in isolation and assuming there are no
other changes in market conditions at the accounting date. There have been no changes from the previous periods in the methods
and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses.

Funding arrangement and policy

The money contributed by the Group to the fund to finance the liabilities of the plan has to be invested.

The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to insurance companies. The insurance companies
in turn manage these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is within the
permissible limits prescribed in the insurance regulations.

There is no compulsion on the part of the Group to fully pre fund the liability of the Plan. The Group’s philosophy is to fund the
benefits based on its own liquidity and tax position as well as level of under funding of the plan.

The expected contribution payable to the plan next year is H 50.02 crore




240     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                      Standalone        Consolidated                                                                     Changes
Non-Financials        Financials        Financials          Audit Report      Balance Sheet        Profit and Loss       in Equity            Cash Flows         Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Gratuity (Contd.)
Projected plan cash flow

The table below shows the expected cash flow profile of the benefits to be paid to the current membership of the plan:
                                                                                                                                                                  (H In Crore)
                                                                                    Less than           Between            Between                  Over
Particulars                                                                            a year         1 - 2 years         3 -5 years             5 years               Total



31 March 2023
Senior staff                                                                             34.64                8.40               75.13            205.87              324.04
Junior staff                                                                              88.13              43.43              86.99              401.93             620.48


31 March 2022
Senior staff                                                                              27.19              12.75               62.91            196.87              299.72
Junior staff                                                                              83.76              47.65             108.62             382.06              622.09


                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation (in years)                                                                                  2023               2022



Senior Staff                                                                                                                                         6.36                6.68
Junior Staff                                                                                                                                         6.70                6.45


                                                                                                                                                   As at 31 March

Principal Actuarial Assumptions (Expressed as Weighted Averages)                                                                                    2023               2022



Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                                               7.45%               7.25%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                                                                                      10.00%             10.00%
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, takes into account, inflation, seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand
and supply in the employment market.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited            241
                  Standalone      Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials    Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity      Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund:
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                           2023              2022


Amount recognised in Balance Sheet
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation                                                                 1,452.17           1,385.12
Fair Value of plan assets                                                                                         (1,476.49)     (1,451.09)
Net funded obligation                                                                                               (24.32)            (65.97)
Amount not recognised due to asset ceiling                                                                            24.32             65.97
Net defined benefit liability/(asset) recognised in Balance Sheet                                                         –                 –


Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Current service cost                                                                                                  42.81             39.75
Total expenses charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                               42.81              39.75


Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income
Opening amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                     –                 –
Remeasurements during the period due to
    Experience adjustments                                                                                            21.67           (100.29)
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                         24.76             34.32
    Adjustment to recognise the effect of asset ceiling                                                             (46.43)             65.97
Closing amount recognised in OCI outside Statement of Profit and Loss                                                     –                 –


Reconciliation of net liability/(asset)
Opening net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                             –                 –
Expense charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                                       42.81             39.75
Employer contributions                                                                                              (42.81)            (39.75)
Closing net defined benefit liability/(asset)                                                                             –                 –


Movement in benefit obligation
Opening of defined benefit obligation                                                                              1,385.12       1,444.48
Current service cost                                                                                                  42.81             39.75
Interest on defined benefit obligation                                                                                98.50             96.34
Remeasurements due to:
    Actuarial loss/(gain) arising on account of experience adjustments                                                21.67           (100.29)
Employee contributions                                                                                                80.26             76.06
Benefits paid                                                                                                       (173.18)          (173.35)
Liabilities assumed/(settled)                                                                                         (3.01)              2.13
Closing defined benefit obligation                                                                                 1,452.17       1,385.12




242     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone      Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials     Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Funded schemes (Contd.)
Provident Fund: (Contd.)
                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                     As at 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                          2023               2022


Movement in plan assets
Opening fair value of plan assets                                                                                  1,451.09         1,444.48
Interest on plan assets                                                                                             103.28              96.34
Remeasurements due to:
    Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets                                                       (24.76)            (34.32)
Employer contributions during the period                                                                             42.81              39.75
Employee contributions during the period                                                                             80.26              76.06
Benefits paid                                                                                                      (173.18)           (173.35)
Assets acquired/(settled)                                                                                            (3.01)               2.13
Closing fair value of plan assets                                                                                 1,476.49         1,451.09

                                                                                                                                   (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                              As at 31 March

Disaggregation of assets                                                                                                                2023



Quoted
Government debt instruments                                                                                                            944.31
Other debt instruments                                                                                                                 435.53
Others                                                                                                                                  28.88
Unquoted
Other debt instruments                                                                                                                  66.01
Others                                                                                                                                    1.76
                                                                                                                                   1,476.49

                                                                                                                     As at 31 March

Key actuarial assumptions                                                                                            2023               2022



Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                                                 7.45%              7.25%
Future derived return on assets (p.a.)                                                                               9.43%            10.02%
Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of the investment (p.a.)                                            7.30%             6.55%
Average historic yield on the investment (p.a.)                                                                      9.28%             9.32%
Guaranteed rate of return (p.a.)                                                                                     8.15%              8.10%




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited         243
                   Standalone       Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials     Financials       Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet    Profit and Loss   in Equity       Cash Flows     Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
37 Employee benefits (Contd.)
Unfunded schemes
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)

                                                                                  As at 31 March 2023               As at 31 March 2022
                                                                             Compensated             Welfare     Compensated          Welfare
Particulars                                                                     Absences             Scheme         Absences          Scheme


Present value of unfunded obligations                                                135.00              1.36          127.56               1.86
Expense recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss                                18.80               0.15          12.81               0.21
Amount recorded as Other Comprehensive Income                                                           (0.03)                            (0.33)
Discount rate (p.a.)                                                                 7.45%             7.45%            7.25%             7.25%
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - senior staff                                        10.00%               N.A.          10.00%               N.A.
Salary escalation rate (p.a.) - junior staff                                        10.00%               N.A.          10.00%               N.A.

Compensated absences

The compensated absences cover the Group’s liability for casual and earned leave.

Entire amount of the provision is presented as current, since the Group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement
for any of these obligations. However, based on past experience, the Group does not expect all employees to take the full amount of
accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months. The following amounts reflect leave that is not expected to be taken or
paid within the next 12 months.
                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                              2023             2022



Compensated absences expected to be settled after twelve months                                                         105.60            101.09

                                                                                                                                     (H In Crore)
                                                                                                                         As at 31 March

Particulars                                                                                                              2023             2022



Amount recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Defined contribution plans:
    Superannuation paid to trust                                                                                          8.38              8.25
    Pension fund paid to Government authorities                                                                           12.59            13.09
    Provident fund paid to Government authorities                                                                         0.46                 -
    Others                                                                                                                0.83              4.72
Defined benefit plans:
    Gratuity                                                                                                             24.05             25.92
    Provident fund paid to trust                                                                                         42.81             39.75
    Others                                                                                                                 0.47             0.30
                                                                                                                         89.59            92.03




244      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
                   Standalone   Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials     Financials   Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity     Cash Flows         Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
38 Capital commitments
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                            For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                        2023               2022



Capital commitments, net of capital advances                                                                      194.83             601.83



39 Expenditure incurred on Research and Development
                                                                                                                                 (H In Crore)
                                                                                                            For the year ended 31 March
Particulars                                                                                                        2023               2022



a. Revenue expenditure - charged to Statement of Profit and Loss                                                  500.05            446.73
b. Revenue expenditure - capitalised                                                                                   –                    –
c. Capital expenditure - excluding building                                                                        37.56              42.06
d. Capital expenditure - building                                                                                      –                    –
                                                                                                                  537.61            488.79



40 Other disclosures
Other notes and disclosures to be inserted in the consolidated financial statements are similar to those of standalone financial
statements of Bajaj Auto Ltd.; and hence have not been repeated here.

The relevant note references in the standalone financial statements are given below:
                                                                                                                  Note Reference
                                                                                                                  of standalone
Particulars                                                                                                       financial statements



Dividends distributed and proposed                                                                                 Note 34 (b)
Contingent liabilities                                                                                             Note 35
Lease                                                                                                              Note 40
Share based payments (Employee stock option plans)                                                                 Note 43
Dues to micro, small and medium enterprises                                                                        Note 44
There are no changes arising out of inclusion of the subsidiaries/associate amounts in the above disclosures.

41 Consolidated related party transactions are same as related party transactions of standalone Bajaj Auto Ltd.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited           245
                      Standalone        Consolidated                                                        Changes
Non-Financials        Financials        Financials         Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity        Cash Flows       Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
42 Investment in an associate
The Group held 47.99% interest in KTM AG, Austria which was swapped for 49.90% stake in Pierer Bajaj AG on 29 September 2021.

Pierer Bajaj AG (formerly: PTW Holding AG) acts exclusively as the holding company of Pierer Mobility AG. The Pierer Mobility Group
is Europe’s leading ‘Powered Two-Wheeler’ (PTW) manufacturer with a focus on highly innovative sports motorcycles and electric
mobility. With its KTM, HUSQVARNA Motorcycles, and GASGAS motorcycle brands, it is one of the technology and market leaders in
Europe, especially when it comes to premium motorcycles

Pierer Bajaj AG is a private entity that is not listed on any public exchange. The Group’s interest is in Pierer Bajaj AG.

The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Group’s investment in Pierer Bajaj AG (in Euro, which is its
functional currency) :

                                                                                                                                          (Euro in Million)

                                                                                                                  31 Dec 2022        31 Dec 2021
Particulars                                                                                                       Pierer Bajaj AG    Pierer Bajaj AG



Current assets                                                                                                           1,368.92               1,040.91
Non-current assets                                                                                                       1,195.85                 992.81
Current liabilities                                                                                                      1,010.71                 618.80
Non-current liabilities                                                                                                    625.61                 649.46
Equity                                                                                                                    928.45                  765.46


Revenue                                                                                                                  2,437.20               2,041.73
Cost of sales                                                                                                           (1,745.88)             (1,469.43)
Gross profit                                                                                                              691.32                  572.30
Selling and racing expenses                                                                                              (242.80)                (208.90)
Research and development expenses                                                                                         (55.35)                 (33.33)
Infrastructure and administration expenses                                                                                (165.19)               (137.20)
Other operating expenses                                                                                                    (0.40)                  (1.99)
Other operating income                                                                                                       2.38                     0.74
Share of profit of associates                                                                                                5.00                     1.67
Result from operating activities                                                                                          234.96                  193.29
Interest income                                                                                                              4.04                     1.86
Interest expenses                                                                                                          (19.34)                (12.86)
Other financial result                                                                                                      (4.06)                    9.10
Profit before tax                                                                                                         215.60                  191.39
Tax expense                                                                                                               (45.28)                 (48.72)
Profit for the year (continuing operations)                                                                               170.32                  142.67
Total comprehensive income for the year (continuing operations)                                                           187.72                  150.42
The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments.




246       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                            16th Annual Report 2022-23
                     Standalone        Consolidated                                                        Changes
Non-Financials       Financials        Financials        Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss    in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
43 Segment information
Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2023
The Company’s Core Management Committee (CMC), examines the Group’s performance both from a product and geographical
perspective and has identified two reportable operative business segments. The Group’s significant source of risk and rewards are
derived from Automotive business and Investments, the performance of which is reviewed by the committee on a periodic basis and
hence considered as individual operative segments.
                                                                                                                                          (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                                                           Automotive       Investments     Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                                                          36,665.03         977.87        37,642.90
Inter segment sales and other income                                                                               –             –                  –
Total revenue                                                                                             36,665.03         977.87        37,642.90
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers : H 35,391.52 crore


Segment result                                                                                             6,905.24         976.25           7,881.49
Finance costs                                                                                                 39.51              –             39.51
Tax expense                                                                                                        –             –           1,781.77
Non-controlling interest                                                                                           –             –                  –
Profit for the year                                                                                        6,865.73         976.25         6,060.21

Segment assets                                                                                              7,552.14      21,887.86       29,440.00
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                                     4,884.03              –         4,884.03
Unallocated corporate assets                                                                                       –             –            812.42
Total assets                                                                                              12,436.17      21,887.86        35,136.45

Segment liabilities                                                                                        5,245.78              –         5,245.78
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                                                  –             –             23.74
Total liabilities                                                                                          5,245.78              –         5,269.52

Capital employed                                                                                           7,190.39      21,887.86        29,866.93

Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                                           5,269.52
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
      Sales tax deferral                                                                                                                      124.23
      Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                345.15
      Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                                               36.00
Total liabilities as per balance sheet                                                                                                     5,774.90

Capital expenditure                                                                                        1,295.75              –           1,295.75
Depreciation and write downs                                                                                 285.85              –            285.85
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                                                      4.79              –                4.79

(b) Geographic segment
                                                                                                                           Rest of
Particulars                                                                                                   India      the world     Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                                                          23,235.61       14,407.29       37,642.90
Segment assets                                                                                            29,180.66        5,955.79       35,136.45
Capital expenditure                                                                                        1,294.76            0.99          1,295.75



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited        247
                    Standalone      Consolidated                                                     Changes
Non-Financials      Financials      Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss    in Equity      Cash Flows      Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
43 Segment information (Contd.)
Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
Segment wise revenue, results and capital employed for the year ended 31 March 2022
                                                                                                                                    (H In Crore)

(a) Business segment
Particulars                                                                                     Automotive       Investments     Consolidated


Revenue
External sales and other income*                                                                    33,271.47        1,157.38       34,428.85
Inter segment sales and other income                                                                         –             –                  –
Total revenue                                                                                       33,271.47       1,157.38        34,428.85
* includes Revenue from contracts with customers : H 32,135.98 crore


Segment result                                                                                       6,505.57        1,154.77        7,660.34
Finance costs                                                                                            8.66              –                8.66
Tax expense                                                                                                  –             –         1,485.81
Profit for the year                                                                                  6,496.91       1,154.77         6,165.87


Segment assets                                                                                       7,512.66       22,785.52       30,298.18
Investments in associate of subsidiary                                                               4,063.79              –         4,063.79
Unallocated corporate assets                                                                                 –             –           749.24
Total assets                                                                                        11,576.45      22,785.52        35,111.21


Segment liabilities                                                                                  4,663.30              –         4,663.30
Unallocated corporate liabilities                                                                            –             –             24.15
Total liabilities                                                                                    4,663.30              –         4,687.45


Capital employed                                                                                     6,913.15      22,785.52        30,423.76


Reconciliation of segment liabilities
Total segment liabilities as above                                                                                                   4,687.45
Add: Considered as part of capital employed
		 Sales tax deferral                                                                                                                  122.77
		 Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                            402.68
		 Government grant (current and non-current)                                                                                            38.65
Total liabilities as per Balance Sheet                                                                                               5,251.55


Capital expenditure                                                                                    458.62              –           458.62
Depreciation and write downs                                                                           269.76              –           269.76
Non cash expenses other than depreciation                                                               (4.44)             –             (4.44)

(b) Geographic segment
                                                                                                                     Rest of
Particulars                                                                                             India      the world     Consolidated


Segment revenue: External sales and other income                                                     17,419.86      17,008.99       34,428.85
Segment assets                                                                                      29,913.52        5,197.69        35,111.21
Capital expenditure                                                                                    458.60            0.02          458.62

248      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
                            Standalone            Consolidated                                                                             Changes
Non-Financials              Financials            Financials         Audit Report         Balance Sheet           Profit and Loss          in Equity                Cash Flows             Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
44 Disclosure in terms of Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013
                                                        Net Assets (i.e. total assets                                              Share in other                           Share in total
                                                          minus total liabilities)        Share in Profit or (Loss)             comprehensive income                    comprehensive income
                                                           As a % of                        As a % of                     As a % of consolidated                  As a % of consolidated
                                                        consolidated          Amount     consolidated         Amount       other comprehensive         Amount      total comprehensive          Amount
Particulars                                               net assets      (J In Crore)   profit or loss   (J In Crore)                   income    (J In Crore)                  income     (J In Crore)



1. Parent:
   Bajaj Auto Ltd.                                            86.60%        25,425.86          92.87%        5,627.60                    43.21%        238.88                    88.72%        5,866.48


2. Subsidiaries (Indian):
   Chetak Technology Ltd.                                       1.32%          387.55          (1.26%)        (76.61)                         –              –                   (1.16%)        (76.61)
   Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd.                             0.07%           20.06          (0.14%)          (7.99)                        –              –                   (0.12%)           (7.99)


3. Subsidiaries (Foreign):
   PT Bajaj Auto Indonesia                                           –            0.99               –                –                  (0.04%)         (0.20)                       –            (0.20)
   Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV                       17.93%         5,264.59           8.74%         529.82                     37.91%        209.60                    11.18%         739.42
   Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                   0.03%             8.70          0.01%            0.68                    (0.05%)         (0.28)                   0.01%             0.40
   Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.                                      0.02%             5.60          0.01%            0.47                         –              –                    0.01%             0.47
   Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda                0.14%           42.23          (0.10%)          (6.16)                   (0.02%)         (0.13)                  (0.10%)           (6.29)
   Add/(Less) : Non-controlling interest in all
   subsidiaries                                                      –          (0.01)               –                –                       –              –                        –                –
   Add/(Less) : Inter-company eliminations                    (6.11%)       (1,794.03)         (0.13%)          (7.60)                   18.99%        105.04                     1.46%            97.44
Total                                                        100.00%       29,361.54         100.00%        6,060.21                   100.00%         552.91                  100.00%        6,613.12




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited               249
                  Standalone     Consolidated                                                    Changes
Non-Financials    Financials     Financials     Audit Report   Balance Sheet   Profit and Loss   in Equity         Cash Flows        Notes




Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Contd.)
45 Miscellaneous
a.    There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.


b. Amounts less than H 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.

c. The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Group for holding
   any Benami property.

d. The Company has performed the assessment to identify transactions with struck off companies as at 31 March 2023 and
   identified no company with any transactions.

e. The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.

f.   The Group has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related parties
     (as defined under the Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person.

g. No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind
   of funds by the Group to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Intermediaries’), with the understanding,
   whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
   persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide any
   guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

h. No funds have been received by the Group from any person or entity, including foreign entities (‘Funding Parties’), with the
   understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Group shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in
   other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or
   provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

i.   The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or Government or any Government authority.

j.   The Group has not been sanctioned working capital limits from banks or financial institutions during any point of time of the year
     on the basis of security of current assets.

k. The Group does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed
   as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other
   relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).

l.   The Group does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.

m. Figures for previous year / period have been regrouped wherever necessary.


                                                                                                       On behalf of the Board of Directors

As per our report of even date

For S R B C & CO LLP                                                                                                 Niraj Bajaj
Chartered Accountants                                                                                                Chairman
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E/E300003                                                                    (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                     Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                       Dinesh Thapar                             Managing Director
                                                                    Chief Financial Officer                       (DIN: 00018262)

per Arvind Sethi
Partner                                                                                                            Anami N. Roy
Membership Number: 089802                                              Dr. J Sridhar                         Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                  Company Secretary                            (DIN: 01361110)




250      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                    16th Annual Report 2022-23
                           Standalone          Consolidated                                                                               Changes
Non-Financials             Financials          Financials           Audit Report          Balance Sheet          Profit and Loss          in Equity               Cash Flows          Notes




Salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 March 2023
Form AOC-1

In accordance with section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries is given
below:
                                                                                   Bajaj Auto
                                                                                International                                 Chetak            Bajaj Auto       Bajaj Do Brasil
                                                      PT. Bajaj Auto            Holdings BV.              Bajaj Auto      Technology            Consumer           Comercio De          Bajaj Auto
Particulars                                               Indonesia           (Consolidated)          (Thailand) Ltd.            Ltd.         Finance Ltd.     Motocicletas Ltda       Spain S.L.U.



a The date since when subsidiary                   20 February 2008        20 February 2008        20 December 2019         04 October       06 December          31 March 2022      05 August 2021
  was acquired                                    (being the effective    (being the effective                                   2021               2021
                                                 date of demerger of     date of demerger of
                                                       erstwhile BAL)          erstwhile BAL)
b Reporting period for the subsidiary                 1 April 2022 to         1 April 2022 to       1 January 2022 to   1 April 2022 to     1 April 2022 to     1 January 2022 to 1 January 2022 to
                                                      31 March 2023           31 March 2023        31 December 2022     31 March 2023       31 March 2023      31 December 2022 31 December 2022
c Reporting currency as on the last date of          IDR (Indonesian                     Euro                    THB               INR                  INR                 Reais             Euro
  the relevant financial year in the case of                 Rupiah)                                      (Thai Baht)                                             (Brazilian Real)
  foreign subsidiaries
d Exchange rate as on the last date of the       1 USD = IDR 15062        1 Euro = H 89.4425     1 USD = THB 33.8866                NA                  NA 1 USD = BRL 5.0801 1 Euro = H 89.4425
  relevant financial year in the case of            1 USD = H 82.17                                   1 USD = H 82.17                                          1 USD = H 82.17
  foreign subsidiaries
e Share capital                                                  6.35               1,770.96                   10.91            470.00                30.00                 48.52              5.37
f   Reserves and surplus                                        (5.36)              3,493.63                   (2.21)           (82.45)               (9.94)                (6.29)             0.23
g Total assets                                                   1.04               5,264.63                     9.44           450.42                22.33                 45.29              8.40
h Total liabilities                                              1.04               5,264.63                    9.44            450.42                22.33                 45.29              8.40
i   Investments                                                     –               4,884.03                       –            117.15                21.12                 23.71                –
j   Turnover                                                     0.06                    2.55                  10.47             84.54                 0.12                  5.09              8.22
k Profit before tax                                                 –                 529.82                    0.68            (76.61)               (7.33)                (6.16)             0.54
l   Provision for tax                                               –                       –                      –                 –                 0.66                     –              0.07
m Profit after tax                                                  –                 529.82                    0.68            (76.61)               (7.99)                (6.16)             0.47
n Proposed dividend                                                 –                       –                      –                 –                    –                     –                –
o % of shareholding                                           99.25%                100.00%                 100.00%           100.00%             100.00%               100.00%            100.00%




                                                                                                                                                 On behalf of the Board of Directors



                                                                                                                                                                   Niraj Bajaj
                                                                                                                                                                   Chairman
                                                                                                                                                                (DIN: 00028261)

                                                                                                                                                                   Rajiv Bajaj
                                                                                                     Dinesh Thapar                                             Managing Director
                                                                                                  Chief Financial Officer                                       (DIN: 00018262)

                                                                                                                                                             Anami N. Roy
                                                                                                      Dr. J Sridhar                                    Chairman - Audit Committee
Pune: 25 April 2023                                                                                 Company Secretary                                       (DIN: 01361110)




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited             251
NOTES
indidesign.in | pragati.com
BUSINESS
RESPONSIBILITY
& SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT

BAJAJ AUTO LIMITED
2022-23
SECTION A
GENERAL DISCLOSURES

Details of the listed entity
Sr. No. Particulars                                                                             Details



   1.      Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity                                 L65993PN2007PLC130076
   2.      Name of the Listed Entity                                                            Bajaj Auto Ltd.
   3.      Year of incorporation                                                                2007
   4.      Registered office address                                                            Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune – 411035, India
   5.      Corporate address                                                                    Mumbai-Pune Road, Akurdi, Pune – 411035, India
   6.      Email                                                                                esg@bajajauto.co.in
   7.      Telephone                                                                            +91 20 66106300
   8.      Website                                                                              www.bajajauto.com
   9.      Financial year reported                                                              FY 2022-23
  10.      Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed                                1. BSE Ltd. (BSE)
                                                                                                2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE)
  11.      Paid-up capital                                                                      H 282.96 crore
  12.      Name and contact details (telephone, e-mail address) of the person who               Mr. Dinesh Thapar
           may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report                           +91 20 66106300
  13.      Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a                 Standalone basis.
           standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis
           (i.e., for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated
           financial statements, taken together).


Products/services
14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):

                                                                                                                             Percentage of
Sr. No. Description of Main Activity Description of Business Activity                                                    Turnover of the entity



                                            Bajaj Auto is a manufacturer of two-wheelers, three-wheelers
                                            and quadricycles. The automotive segment includes all
   1.      Manufacturing                    activities related to development, design, manufacture,                               100%
                                            assembly, and sale of two-wheelers/three-wheelers as well
                                            as sale of related parts and accessories.


15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):

                                                                                                                          Percentage of total
Sr. No. Product/Service                                                                       NIC Code                   Turnover contributed



           Manufacturer of motorcycles and three-wheelers (including
   1.                                                                                          3091                               97%
           parts thereof)*
*includes Quadricycles




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited      1
Operations
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:

Location                                                   Number of plants             Number of offices                Total


National                                                              4                          25                       29
International                                                       Nil                          7                        7

17. Markets served by the entity:
a. Number of locations

Locations                                                                                     Number


National (No. of States)                                                                      Pan India
International (No. of Countries)                                               About 80 countries across the world


b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
   Response: 38.4%

c. A brief on types of customers
    Response: Bajaj Auto manufactures and sells a wide variety of product portfolio ranging from commuter segment motorcycle to
    powerful sports bike and new generation electric scooters in the two-wheeler segment, passenger and cargo vehicles in the
    three-wheeler segment along with Qute, a first in the segment of quadricycles. With this, the Company caters to customer needs
    for all ages and genders across segments and demographics in both the domestic and global markets, making us a truly
    “The World’s Favourite Indian”. It is the largest three-wheeler producer in the world and largest exporter of two-wheelers and
    three-wheelers from India.

Employees
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled):

Sr.                                                                                    Male                          Female
No.     Particulars                                       Total (A)       Number (B)          % (B/A)       Number (C)         % (C/A)


Employees
1       Permanent (D)                                       2,708             2,596            95.9%           112               4.1%
2       Other than Permanent (E)                             355              288              81.1%            67               18.9%
3       Total employees (D + E)                             3,063             2,884            94.1%           179               5.9%
Workers
4       Permanent (F)                                       4,130             3,944            95.5%           186               4.5%
5       Other than Permanent (G)                            1,183             1,009            85.3%           174               14.7%
6       Total workers (F + G)                               5,313             4,953            93.2%           360               6.8%




    2      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                               16th Annual Report 2022-23
b. Differently abled employees and workers:

Sr.                                                                                                        Male                                     Female
No.     Particulars                                                      Total (A)            Number (B)             % (B/A)           Number (C)              % (C/A)


Differently abled Employees
1       Permanent (D)                                                         1                    1                  100%
2       Other than Permanent (E)                                              1                    1                  100%                  Nil                  Nil
3       Total employees (D + E)                                               2                    2                  100%
Differently abled Workers
4       Permanent (F)                                                        11                   11                  100%
5       Other than Permanent (G)                                             Nil                  Nil                  Nil                  Nil                  Nil
6       Total workers (F + G)                                                11                   11                  100%

19. Participation/inclusion/representation of women:
                                                                                                                  No. and percentage of Females
Particulars                                                                  Total (A)                    Number (B)                                 % (B/A)


Board of Directors                                                                 12                           1                                      8.3%
Key Management Personnel                                                           3                           Nil                                      Nil

20. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:
                                               FY 2022-23                                      FY 2021-22                                     FY 2020-21
Particulars                        Male           Female           Total               Male      Female             Total          Male           Female          Total


Permanent Employees                13.6%           31.3%           14.3%               9.7%       21.5%             10.1%         10.6%           25.6%           11.0%
Permanent Workers                   2.1%           16.9%           2.7%                0.6%        5.7%              0.8%          0.4%            2.5%            0.4%
*Note: The turnover rate presented above considers only voluntary separations. All exits due to dismissal, termination, retirement, and death in service are excluded.


Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21. (a) Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures
                                                                                                                                            Does the entity indicated
                                                                                                                                           at column A, participate in
                                                                     Indicate whether holding/                 Percentage of              the Business Responsibility
Sr.    Name of the holding/subsidiary/                                 Subsidiary/Associate/                   shares held by                initiatives of the listed
No.    associate companies/joint ventures (A)                              Joint Venture                        listed entity                    entity? (Yes/No)


1      Chetak Technology Ltd.                                                  Subsidiary                             100%                                No
2      Bajaj Auto Consumer Finance Ltd. (BACFL)                                Subsidiary                             100%                                No
3      Bajaj Auto International Holdings BV (BAIH BV)                          Subsidiary                             100%                                No
4      Bajaj Auto (Thailand) Ltd.                                              Subsidiary                             100%                                No
5      Bajaj Auto Spain S.L.U.                                                 Subsidiary                             100%                                No
6      Bajaj Do Brasil Comercio De Motocicletas Ltda                           Subsidiary                             100%                                No
7      PT. Bajaj Auto Indonesia (PT BAI)                                       Subsidiary                            99.25%                               No


CSR Details
22. (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: Yes
    (ii) Turnover: H 37,609 crore
    (iii) Net worth: H 25,426 crore




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited             3
Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder                   Grievance Redressal                                     FY 2022-23                                                        FY 2021-22
group from whom           Mechanism in Place (Yes/No)       Number of         Number of complaints                             Number of filed   Number of complaints
complaint is            (If yes, then provide weblink for complaints filed    pending resolution at                              complaints      pending resolution at
received                    grievance redress policy)     during the year       close of the year           Remarks            during the year     close of the year           Remarks


Communities                           Yes                       Nil                    Nil                     Nil                   Nil                  Nil                     Nil
Investors (Other than
                                      Yes                                                                                            Nil                  Nil                     Nil
shareholders)                                                   Nil                    Nil                     Nil
Shareholders                          Yes                        14                    Nil                     Nil                   12                   Nil                     Nil
Employees and
                                      Yes                                                                                            3                    Nil                     Nil
workers                                                          4                     Nil                     Nil
                                                                                                      All pending complaints                                             All pending complaints
Customers                             Yes                                                                                          78,395                402
                                                              83,751                  7,484           will be closed in FY24                                               are closed in FY23
Value Chain Partners                  Yes                       Nil                    Nil                     Nil                   Nil                  Nil                     Nil

Grievance redressal mechanism in place: Yes
• Whistle Blower Policy: (www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-policy/Whistle-Blower-Policy.ashx)
• Contact Information: (www.bajajauto.com/investors/investor-services)

24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:

Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk
along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.

At Bajaj Auto, we have conducted materiality assessment in 2022-23. Materiality assessment is a process that identifies and
prioritizes environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues that are most relevant to a Company’s business operations and
stakeholders. It involves evaluating the potential impacts and risks associated with these issues and determining their significance
in terms of financial performance, reputation, and long-term sustainability. The assessment considers factors such as regulatory
compliance, stakeholder expectations, industry norms, and emerging trends. It helps companies focus their ESG efforts on the
most material issues, enabling better decision-making, risk management, and value creation. Ultimately, the goal is to enhance
transparency, accountability, and sustainable practices within the organization, driving long-term business success and positive
societal impact. The material topics identified are represented below:




    Environment (E)                                                      Social (S)                                                         Governance (G)

    • Emmisions                                                              • Community engagement                                         • Business ethics
                                                                               and development
    • Energy management                                                                                                                     • Corporate governance
                                                                             • Customer satisfaction
    • Responsible supply chain                                                                                                              • Innovation
      and service providers                                                  • Employee (including
                                                                                                                                            • Product quality
                                                                               workers) enagagement
    • Waste generation
                                                                               and welfare                                                  • Regulatory compliance
    • Water management
                                                                             • Human rights
                                                                             • Occupational health
                                                                               and safety




   4        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
Below find the detailed rationale and approach to mitigate some of the material issues with high impact on business
and stakeholders:

                                                                                                             Financial implications of
               Indicate whether                                                                              the risk or opportunity
Material issue risk or opportunity Rationale for identifying the       In case of risk, approach to adapt or (Indicate positive or negative
identified     (R/O)               risk/opportunity                    mitigate                              implications)



Energy          Risk, Opportunity   Lack of optimising energy     1. Establish business excellence      1. Energy cost reduction
Management                          consumption would lead to        team to identify opportunities of  2. Saving on compliance
                                    related environmental impacts    energy efficiencies.               penalties and high production
                                    and increased production      2. Regular internal energy audits and costs.
                                    costs. Failure to adopt          energy cost reduction studies
                                    low-carbon technologies may
                                                                  3. Initiatives around renewable
                                    expose the Company to
                                                                     energy has been initiated.
                                    potential legislative or
                                    taxation burdens.
                                    Initiatives around energy
                                    efficient practices will lead to
                                    reduced energy expenses.
Emissions       Risk                With various stakeholders       1. Conduct GHG accounting of             Impact on Company’s reputation
                                    focusing on the Company’s net      relevant categories of Scope 3        and brand value.
                                    GHG emissions in Scope 1, 2        emissions.
                                    and 3 categories, failure to    2. Prepare emission reduction
                                    adopt appropriate                  initiatives for identified areas of
                                    countermeasure to reduce the       higher emissions.
                                    carbon intensity of the product
                                    will impact brand reputation
                                    and stakeholder confidence.
Responsible     Opportunity         Integration of ESG practices in 1. Encourage our industrial suppliers With our initiatives to establish
Supply Chain                        the value chain helps the          to obtain ISO 14001/ISO 45001       a responsible supply chain, we
and Service                         Company in reducing its            certification, to demonstrate their have an opportunity to have a
Providers                           indirect environmental impact      commitment to conducting            strong and compliant supply
                                    and promote good governance        business in an ethical and          chain system which ensures low
                                    amongst suppliers and other        sustainable manner.                 risk on environmental and
                                    value chain partners.           2. Established and implemented a       social parameters.
                                                                       Supplier Code of Conduct to guide
                                                                       our suppliers as to how to engage
                                                                       in ethical, responsible, fair,
                                                                       transparent, and legal business
                                                                       practices in their operations. This
                                                                       is applicable to all domestic
                                                                       suppliers.
Waste           Risk, Opportunity   The increased focus of the        1. Working in compliance with India’s Savings on compliance
Management                          government bodies, regulators,       Plastic Waste Management Rules, penalties and high production
                                    and investors in the corporate       2016 (subsequent amendments)         costs.
                                    strategy to handle the waste         and the Extended Producer
                                    generated across operations,         Responsibility (EPR) guidelines.
                                    has led to a critical correlation 2. Our waste collection plan is in line
                                    between waste generated by           with the EPR plan submitted to
                                    the Company and its brand            Pollution Control Board (PCB).
                                    reputation.
                                                                      3. Our initiatives focus on diverting
                                    Aligning our comprehensive           waste generated from landfills. We
                                    waste management initiatives         use authorised waste
                                    with the upcoming regulatory         management units for disposing
                                    norms can help highlight             waste paint generated for further
                                    Company’s sustainability vision      recycling.
                                    and pre-emptively abate the
                                    financial risks like fines and
                                    penalties.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                       Bajaj Auto Limited      5
                                                                                                           Financial implications of
               Indicate whether                                                                            the risk or opportunity
Material issue risk or opportunity Rationale for identifying the     In case of risk, approach to adapt or (Indicate positive or negative
identified     (R/O)               risk/opportunity                  mitigate                              implications)



Water           Risk, Opportunity   Water being a shared           1. Initiatives are focused on net     Savings on compliance
Management                          commodity between Company         water positive through ground      penalties and high production
                                    and surrounding community, it     water recharge and rainwater       costs.
                                    is a sensitive topic requiring    harvesting
                                    proper management in order 2. We use treated wastewater in
                                    to prevent any regulatory as      washrooms. We also use water
                                    well as social conflicts.         waste generated from operations
                                    Moreover, due to climate          (like Reverse Osmosis- RO) back in
                                    change, erratic weather           system, generally called as Water
                                    patterns pose a threat to         Recirculation System (WRS).
                                    continuous and appropriate
                                    supply of water for business
                                    operations.
Occupational    Risk                Being a manufacturing            1. The Company has implemented           High number of accidents or
Health and                          company, it is imperative that      proactive measures like HIRA,         fatalities can bring down the
Safety                              we provide provide a safe           safety observation tours, Job         confidence of workers leading
                                    environment and working             Safety Analysis (JSA), STOP cards,    to workforce loss, ultimately
                                    conditions for our employees.       online work permission systems,       leading to production loss.
                                                                        Hazard and Operability study
                                                                        (HAZOP), Risk and Consequences
                                                                        Analysis, and Safety Audits.
                                                                     2. Our team’s initiatives focus on
                                                                        Occupational Health and Safety,
                                                                        through regular internal audits
                                                                        and certifications of plants to ISO
                                                                        45001:2018 by M/s Bureau
                                                                        Veritas. Our teams comply with all
                                                                        applicable Health and Safety
                                                                        regulations.
Customer        Risk, Opportunity   Lack of customer focus will      1. We record customer feedbacks        1. Loss of market share due to
Satisfaction                        have a direct impact on             through various ways. We have          failing in serving the
                                    business profitability.             activated multiple avenues to raise    customer needs and service.
                                    Transparent customer                complaint and feedback for          2. Increased sales and potential
                                    feedback will enhance brand         customer convenience like a            revenue as a result of positive
                                    value and reputation.               dedicated call centre, customer        customer feedback.
                                                                        satisfaction survey, customer care
                                                                        app, and our customer complaint
                                                                        portal, etc.
                                                                     2. We have adapted TPM
                                                                        methodology at our dealership to
                                                                        ensure quality services at our
                                                                        dealer network. Consumer
                                                                        satisfaction is measured through
                                                                        our NPS process. Our marketing
                                                                        team conducts Focused Group
                                                                        Discussions to understand
                                                                        customer feedback.
In Section C, we have presented how we strategically approach these material issues through our performance against the
principles (1 to 9).




  6     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                      16th Annual Report 2022-23
SECTION B
MANAGEMENT & PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place
towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.

Disclosure Question                                                  P1      P2       P3       P4       P5       P6        P7      P8      P9



Policy and management processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle   Yes, At Bajaj Auto we have policies which covers all principles and its core
      and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)                elements of NGBRC.
  b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)           Yes, all our policies are approved by the Board.
  c. Web Link of the Policies, if available                        https://www.bajajauto.com/investors/policies-codes
2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. Yes, At Bajaj Auto we have implemented policies in all our operations and
   (Yes/No)                                                      activities of the organization.
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners?   Yes, but restricted to all our Original Equipment suppliers.
   (Yes/No)
4. Name of the national and international codes/certifications/ ISO 45001, ISO 14001
   labels/standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade,
   Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g., SA 8000,
   OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each
   principle
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity       Operations:
   with defined timelines, if any                                  • To sustain 100% Water Positivity by rainwater harvesting and ground
                                                                     water recharge.
                                                                   • To sustain Zero Liquid Discharge by recycling water.
                                                                   • Maximise Renewable Energy use by 10% year on year through increase
                                                                     in Solar Energy generation.
                                                                   • To reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 5% year on year (Starting
                                                                     from FY24).
                                                                   • Minimise consumption of packaging plastic by 50% by 2030 (Starting
                                                                     from FY24).
                                                                   Supply Chain Management: To ensure the integration of ESG throughout
                                                                   our supply chain, we are undertaking assessment on ESG criteria for 100%
                                                                   of our Non-Industry suppliers by 2024.
6. Performance of the entity against the specific commitments,     Operations: The Company has achieved its commitments, goals and targets
   goals, and targets along-with reasons in case the same are      set for the year.
   not met.                                                        Supply Chain Management: Currently 78% of our Non-Industry suppliers
                                                                   are assessed under ESG criteria.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited    7
Governance, leadership, and oversight

7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets, and
   achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)

    Response: Our vision is to be “Distinctly Ahead” in creating the benchmarks for resource conservation, maximising use of
    renewable energy and pollution prevention, during the complete product realisation cycle. We prioritize minimizing the negative
    effects that our operations have on the environment through managing our resources in a sustainable way. Our company has
    also coordinated our sustainability efforts along the value chain, plant operations and product development.

    At BAL, we ensure safety, wellbeing, and development of our human capital. We adhere to a strict code of ethics and standards
    and can realise our targets by working in collaboration with our stakeholders. As a result, Bajaj Auto’s focus has sharpened, and
    the calibre of our offerings has increased. For instance, the Company focuses on integration of sustainability into our operations
    and value chain by adhering to the principles of responsible business conduct.

    We are aware of the implications of climate change on the environment and strive to reduce our carbon footprint by investing in
    innovative technologies. To accomplish this goal, we are also undertaking various measures such as monitoring our resource
    consumption and waste generation.

    A major obstacle to the adoption of sustainable business practices is to encompass the entire value chain to comply with all
    environmental and social requirements by ensuring the incorporation of ESG parameters in the business. Nevertheless, Bajaj
    Auto will plan proactive measures in this area to lead to a meaningful solution.

8. Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).

    Response: Mr. Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director, DIN: 07464437.

9. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/Director responsible for decision making on sustainability related
   issues? (Yes/No). If yes, provide details.

    Response: Mr. Pradeep Shrivastava, Executive Director, is responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues in BAL.

10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:

                            Indicate whether review was undertaken by                          Frequency (Annually/Half yearly/Quarterly/
                       Director/Committee of the Board/Any other Committee                            Any other – please specify)
Subject for Review      P1     P2     P3     P4     P5     P6     P7     P8     P9        P1    P2    P3    P4    P5    P6    P7     P8     P9


Performance            At Bajaj Auto, all the policies are reviewed periodically or on a need basis by department heads, business heads, senior
against above          management personnel/respective committees and placed before the Board of Directors as and when required. In the
policies and follow    assessment, the efficacy of these policies is also reviewed and necessary changes to policies and procedures are
up action.             implemented.
Compliance with
statutory
requirements of
relevance to the       Bajaj Auto is in compliance with all regulations, as applicable.
principles, and
rectification of any
non-compliances


11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No).
    If yes, provide name of the agency.

    Response: Our processes and policies are reviewed and evaluated periodically by the respective internal departments and
    updated accordingly. Suggestions and recommendations by the Company management are incorporated into the policies prior to
    placing before the Board for approval. In the coming years, we intend to conduct an independent assessment of our policies.

12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:

    Response: Not applicable




  8     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                         16th Annual Report 2022-23
SECTION C
PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE

      PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity,
                                  and in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and accountable.


Essential Indicators

1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year:

                                                                                                               Percentage of persons in
                            Total number of training and          Topics/principles covered under the       respective category covered by
Segment                     awareness programmes held                   training and its impact              the awareness programmes



                        On an ongoing basis, Bajaj Auto carries out familiarisation programs for its
                        Directors, as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations. Various programmes
Board of Directors      and presentations have been held for the Directors, including the Independent                   100%
                        Directors throughout the year on an ongoing and continual basis aiming for
                        familiarisation in the areas of our business model, nature of industry, business
                        updates of its subsidiaries and other relevant information such as roles, rights,
Key Managerial          responsibilities of Independent Directors. There are also programs which focus
                        on keeping the Key Personnel well informed on the matters relating to our                       100%
Personnel
                        governing norms, risk metrices, Code of Conduct, and Insider Trading Code and
                        other related matters.
Employees other than Bajaj Auto ensures that employees and workers are provided with various
                                                                                                                        100%
BoD and KMPs         awareness and learning interventions both online and offline on topics of code
                     of conduct, wellness facilities and policies, safety, health and environment,
Workers              human rights, etc.                                                                                 100%


2. Details of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by
   directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format
   (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations
   and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):

                                                                   Monetary
                                                      Name of the regulatory/                                          Has an appeal been
                                     NGRBC            enforcement agencies/             Amount          Brief of the       preferred?
          Particulars               Principle           judicial institutions            (In J)            Case             (Yes/No)



Penalty/Fine
Settlement                                                                Nil                                                  NA
Compounding fee


                                                                Non-monetary
                                                      Name of the regulatory/                                          Has an appeal been
                                     NGRBC            enforcement agencies/             Amount          Brief of the       preferred?
          Particulars               Principle           judicial institutions            (In J)            Case             (Yes/No)



Imprisonment
                                                                          Nil                                                  NA
Punishment




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited   9
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
   monetary action has been appealed:

                      Case Details                              Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions



                            NA                                                                  NA
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-
   link to the policy.

   Response: At Bajaj Auto, our Code of Conduct guides the integrity norms pertaining to bribes, favours from business associates,
   gifts from business associates etc. that deal with anti-corruption and anti-bribery. At Bajaj Auto, Integrity is about people doing
   the right thing – not looking for personal gain or to reward others by taking advantage of ambiguity or uncertainty. Adhering
   to the set norms prevent damage to the organization in financial or information terms or to the organization image in front of
   regulatory authorities or society at large.

   Link to Bajaj Auto Code of Conduct: https://bajajauto.integritymatters.in/clients/67/show_code_of_ethics?locale=en

5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency
   for the charges of bribery/corruption:

Particulars                                                                     FY 2022-23                        FY 2021-22



Directors
KMPs
                                                                                     Nil                              Nil
Employees
Workers


6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:

                                                                                FY 2022-23                        FY 2021-22
Particulars                                                               Number           Remarks         Number           Remarks



Number of complaints received in relation to issues
                                                                                     Nil                              Nil
of conflict of interest of the Directors
Number of complaints received in relation to issues
                                                                                     Nil                              Nl
of conflict of interest of the KMPs


7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/
   law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.

   Response: No such instance for corruption and conflicts of interest.




 10    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                 16th Annual Report 2022-23
Leadership Indicators

1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:

                                                                                    Percentage of value chain partners covered (by
 Total number of awareness                Topics/principles covered                   value of business done with such partners)
      programmes held                         under the training                          under the awareness programmes



                                     17 topics were covered in 116 training
            116                programmes conducted in 2022-23, which covered                            54.7%
                                            all 9 principles of BRSR.


2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If
   Yes, provide details of the same.

   Response: Bajaj Auto has zero tolerance towards unethical business practices and ensures adherence to relevant principles
   including in relation to conflict of interest. The Company has laid down a separate Code of Conduct (‘CoC’) for Directors and Senior
   Management which inter alia provides that “Directors and Senior Management shall observe the highest standards of ethical
   conduct and integrity and shall work to the best of their ability and judgement”; “Directors and senior managers shall not receive
   directly or indirectly any benefit from the Company's business associates, which is intended or can be perceived as being given to
   gain favour for dealing with the Company.” The said CoC also requires them not to engage in any material business relationship
   or activity, which conflicts with their duties towards the Company. A declaration from the Directors and Senior Management about
   affirmation to the said CoC is obtained every year and an affirmation to that effect is signed by the MD and CEO, which is part of
   the Annual Report of the Company every year. It is thus communicated to all stakeholders by the MD, through the Annual Report.
   No instance of corruption and conflict of interest has been identified during the year under review.

   Pursuant to regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, disclosures from Senior Management to the Board relating to all
   material financial and commercial transactions, where they had or were deemed to have had personal interest that might have
   been in potential conflict with the interest of the Company have been made periodically. The Board notes and reviews the same. It
   is also duly reported in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                 Bajaj Auto Limited     11
       PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is
                                         sustainable and safe.


Essential Indicators

1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and
   social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.

Particulars                                FY 2022-23         FY 2021-22           Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts



                                                                                   - For EV Development (Zero emission technology)
                                                                                   - Expenses towards emission systems upgrade
R&D*                                           100%                 100%
                                                                                   - Expenses towards specific technologies to improve the social impacts
                                                                                     of products and processes and more
                                                                                   - For EV related spends such as purchase of battery testing equipment,
                                                                                     oscilloscopes, power supplies and other test
                                                                                   - Measuring equipment for testing and validation of Electric Vehicles
                                                                                   - Scanning Electron Microscope
                                                                                   - Investments in Dies and Moulds
Capex#                                        25.4%                 6.4%
                                                                                   - Prototyping machines for EV Components
                                                                                   - Building roofs are insulated to reduce heat load and resultant
                                                                                     reduction for artificial ventilation
                                                                                   - Use to robotics arms in painting process to reduce paint wastage and
                                                                                     fuel consumption
* A crucial aspect of Bajaj Auto’s R&D expenditure is to reduce environmental and social impact. We also focus on developing new technologies to improve customer
experience, product quality & safety. Hence, these expenditures are inseparable cost of the projects and thus separately identifying such expenditure is not feasible.
# A large amount of investments in Electric Vehicle and other technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of products and processes are done through a
separate entity, Chetak Technology Limited [CTL] (a wholly owned subsidiary of Bajaj Auto Limited, the reporting entity). The percentages after including those investments
are 32.7% and 6.4% for FY 2022-23 & FY 2021-22, respectively.


2. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
		
		Response: Yes

 b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
		
		Response: We have a well-defined methodology and practices and Supplier Code of Conduct (BAL SCoC) to engage with all
    our suppliers in an ethical, responsible, fair, transparent, legal, and sustainable way. 100% of our input materials and services
    are sourced from suppliers adhering to internal sustainability standards/codes/policies.

3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life,
   for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste:

    Response: Bajaj Auto, being in automotive industry, doesn’t have processes to recycle, reuse and dispose products at the end of
    its life.

4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, whether the waste
   collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not,
   provide steps taken to address the same.

    Response: Yes, we work in compliance with India’s Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 (subsequent amendments) and the
    Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) guidelines. Our waste collection plan is in line with the EPR plan submitted to Pollution
    Control Board (PCB).




 12       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                          16th Annual Report 2022-23
Leadership Indicators:

1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or
   for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?

   Response: Bajaj Auto has not conducted any Life Cycle Assessment on products in FY 2022-23.

2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your
   products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly
   describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.

                                  Description of the
Name of Product/Service             risk/concern        Action Taken



Two Wheelers & Three          Environmental pollution   • Implementation of IMDS which is followed globally by OEM industry.
Wheelers                      and mankind harm          • At Bajaj Auto, we adhere to Automotive Industry Standards and specifically
                                                          follow ‘guidelines on provision for End-of-life Vehicles’ (AIS 129 guidelines).
                                                          Every child part of a vehicle is categorized in Recyclable and Recoverable
                                                          category according to ELV (End-of-Life Vehicles) directive. This system
                                                          reduces the adverse impact of raw material processing on soil, water &
                                                          energy.
                                                        • We follow SVHC (Substances of Very High Concern) banned substances
                                                          according to REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction
                                                          of Chemicals) regulation. This was done according to European Regulatory &
                                                          ELV (End-of-Life Vehicles) Regulation in each and every child part of a
                                                          vehicle for all models, which lead to elimination of mankind harm and
                                                          environmental pollution.


3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry)
   or providing services (for service industry).

                                                            Recycled or re-used input material to total material
Indicate input material                                  FY 2022-23                                        FY 2021-22



Aluminium                                                   6.8%                                               7.0%




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                  Bajaj Auto Limited        13
        PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees,
                                       including those in their value chains.


Essential Indicators:

1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:

                                                               Percentage of employees covered by
                            Health Insurance         Accident Insurance       Maternity Benefits    Paternity Benefits    Day-care Facilities
                  Total    Number            %       Number           %       Number         %      Number         %      Number           %
Category           (A)       (B)           (B/A)       (C)          (C/A)       (D)        (D/A)      (E)        (E/A)      (F)          (F/A)


                                                               Permanent employees
Male              2,596         2596       100%       2,596         100%          NA        NA          2,596    100%         2,596      100%
Female             112          112        100%          112        100%          112      100%          NA       NA          112        100%
Total             2,708      2708          100%       2,708         100%          112      4.1%         2,596    95.9%        2,708      100%
                                                         Other than permanent employees
Male               288          288        100%          288        100%          NA        NA          288      100%         288        100%
Female             67           67         100%          67         100%          67       100%          NA       NA           67        100%
Total             355           355        100%          355        100%          67       18.9%        288      81.1%        355       100%
      b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:

                                                               Percentage of employees covered by
                            Health Insurance         Accident Insurance       Maternity Benefits    Paternity Benefits    Day-care Facilities
                  Total    Number            %       Number           %       Number         %      Number         %      Number           %
Category           (A)       (B)           (B/A)       (C)          (C/A)       (D)        (D/A)      (E)        (E/A)      (F)          (F/A)


                                                                Permanent workers
Male              3,944      3,944         100%       3,944         100%          NA        NA          3,944    100%         3,944      100%
Female             186          186        100%          186        100%          186      100%          NA       NA          186        100%
Total             4,130     4,130          100%       4,130         100%          186      4.5%         3,944    95.5%        4,130      100%
                                                          Other than permanent workers
Male              1,009      1,009         100%       1,009         100%          NA        NA          1,009    100%         1,009      100%
Female             174          174        100%          174        100%          174      100%          NA       NA          174        100%
Total             1,183     1,183          100%       1,183         100%          174      14.7%        1,009    85.3%        1,183      100%


2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year:

                                            FY 2022-23                                                     FY 2021-22
                                                                 Deducted and                                                   Deducted and
                   No. of employees         No. of workers       deposited with     No. of employees       No. of workers       deposited with
                   covered as a % of       covered as a % of      the authority     covered as a % of     covered as a % of      the authority
Benefits            total employees          total workers         (Y/N/N.A.)        total employees        total workers         (Y/N/N.A.)


PF                100% of applicable 100% of applicable                             100% of applicable 100% of applicable
                                                                      Yes                                                             Yes
                 employees as per act workers as per act                           employees as per act workers as per act
Gratuity          100% of applicable 100% of applicable                             100% of applicable 100% of applicable
                                                                      N.A.                                                            N.A.
                 employees as per act workers as per act                           employees as per act workers as per act
ESI               100% of applicable 100% of applicable                             100% of applicable 100% of applicable
                                                                      Yes                                                             Yes
                 employees as per act workers as per act                           employees as per act workers as per act


 14        Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
3. Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers,
   as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the
   entity in this regard.

    Response: Yes, our corporate office is accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the
    Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.

4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a
   web-link to the policy.

    Response: The Company has adopted an Equal Opportunity Policy in accordance with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with
    Disabilities Act, 2016 and the rules framed thereunder. The Equal Employment Opportunity policy is available on our website.
    The link is as follows https://www.bajajauto.com/corporate/key-policies

5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
                                                                  Permanent Employees                                             Permanent Workers
Gender                                               Return to work rate               Retention rate             Return to work rate               Retention rate


Male                                                            Nil                             Nil                         Nil                            Nil
Female                                                        100%                             100%                        100%                          76.5%
Total                                                         100%                             100%                        100%                          76.5%
Note: Paternity policy has been launched in FY22-23. No relevant cases for males under “Return to work rate” and “Retention rate” category in current reporting period.


6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If
   yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.

Category                           Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)


                                   Yes, there is a grievance committee in all BAL plants where the workmen are represented by members of their
                                   recognised unions. The representatives of the committee are nominated by management. The grievance committee
Permanent Workers                  is chaired by the plant head in each plant. The committee meets once a month. In that meeting, all types of grievances
                                   of workmen are discussed and resolved. Workers can contact through email, or through ‘Integrity Matters’ website,
                                   an independent third party organisation or by contacting the HR representative for respective business unit.
                                   Yes, in plants, the Personnel manager is nominated as grievance redressal officer for grievances related with
                                   contract labour or other type of employees. Contractors, supervisors, and individual contract labour can contact
Other than Permanent
                                   personnel manager for redressal of their grievances. A grievance register is maintained for monitoring how many
Workers
                                   grievances are received and settled. Workers can contact through email, or through ‘Integrity Matters’ website, an
                                   independent third party organisation or by contacting the HR representative for respective business unit.
Permanent Employees                Yes, Employees can contact through email, or through ‘Integrity Matters’ website, an independent third party
                                   organisation or by contacting the HR representative for respective business unit.
Other than Permanent
                                   Link - https://bajajauto.integritymatters.in/cases/case_instructions?locale=en
Employees


7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or unions recognised by the listed entity:

                                                       FY 2022-23                                                                 FY 2021-22
                           Total employees/           No. of employees/                               Total employees/          No. of employees/
                              workers in             workers in respective                               workers in           workers in respective
                              respective              category, who are                                  respective           category, who are part
                               category              part of association(s)                               category              of association(s) or
Category                          (A)                     or Union (B)               % (B/A)                 (C)                     Union (D)                   % (D/C)


                                                                      Total Permanent Employees
Male                               2,596                         Nil                     Nil                 2,644                         Nil                     Nil
Female                              112                          Nil                     Nil                  103                          Nil                     Nil
                                                                       Total Permanent Workers
Male                               3,944                        2,990                  75.8%                 4,382                       3,461                   79.0%
Female                              186                           53                   28.5%                  189                          59                    31.2%




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited               15
8. Details of training given to employees and workers:

                                          FY 2022-23                                                     FY 2021-22
                                On Health and Safety         On Skill                        On Health and Safety              On Skill
                                     Measures              Upgradation                            Measures                   Upgradation
                                Number                 Number                                Number                       Number
Category            Total (A)     (B)       % (B/A)      (C)         % (C/A)     Total (D)     (E)        % (E/D)           (F)      % (F/D)



                                                                Employees
Male                 2,884        2,491      86%         2,884        100%        2,951        116          4%             2,951      100%
Female                179         177        98%          179         100%            160       18          11%            160        100%
Total                3,063       2,668       87%         3,063        100%        3,111        134          4%            3,111       100%
                                                                 Workers
Male                 4,953        3,841      77%         4,953        100%        5,135        4,830        94%            5,135      100%
Female                360         319        88%          360         100%            333      333         100%            333        100%
Total                5,313       4,160       78%         5,313        100%        5,468       5,163         94%           5,468       100%


9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:

                                                        FY 2022-23                                           FY 2021-22
Category                                   Total (A)    Number (B)          % (B/A)          Total (C)       Number (D)            % (D/C)



                                                                Employees
Male                                      2,884            2,884               100%            2,951              2,951            100%
Female                                     179              179                100%            160                160               100%
Total                                     3,063            3,063               100%           3,111              3,111             100%
                                                                 Workers
Male                                      4,953            4,953               100%            5,135              5,135             100%
Female                                     360              360                100%            333                333               100%
Total                                     5,313            5,313               100%           5,468              5,468             100%


10. Health and Safety Management System:

a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/No). If yes, the
   coverage of such system?

   Response: Yes, we have implemented Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems in all plants. Bajaj Auto is
   committed to provide a safe and healthy workplace by minimizing the risk of accidents, injury and exposure to health risks and it
   complies with applicable laws and regulations with respect to safety at workplace. All the plants are certified for ISO 45001:2018
   by
   M/s Bureau Veritas. All applicable Health and Safety regulations are being complied. We have intensified our safety regulations
   beyond what the legislative norms prescribe. The system includes all individuals who are directly or indirectly employed by,
   working on behalf of, or engaged with Bajaj Auto, including employees (staff, permanent, contractual & trainees) and visitors.
   We regularly hold awareness sessions on topics related to health and safety for our employees as well as send out alerts and
   communications on a regular basis.

   Please refer to our Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) policy for more details: https://www.bajajauto.com/corporate/key-policies.

b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by
   the entity?

   Response: For both routine and non-routine activity, we have established a standard approach for conducting Hazard
   Identification & Risk Assessment (HIRA). In addition to HIRA, proactive measures are put into place, such as safety observation
   tours (SOTs) conducted by cross functional team (CFT), Job Safety Analysis (JSA), STOP cards, online work permission systems,
   Hazard and Operability study (HAZOP), Risk and Consequences Analysis, and Safety Audits.



 16      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                  16th Annual Report 2022-23
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. (Y/N)

    Response: Yes.

d. Do the employees/worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/No)

    Response: Yes.

11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:

Safety Incident/Number                                                                   Category           FY 2022-23      FY 2021-22



                                                                                        Employees
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked)
                                                                                          Workers
                                                                                        Employees
Total recordable work-related injuries
                                                                                          Workers
                                                                                                                   Nil            Nil
                                                                                        Employees
No. of fatalities
                                                                                          Workers
                                                                                        Employees
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
                                                                                          Workers


12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.

    Response: The Safety Management System at Bajaj Auto is created using both proactive and reactive methods, to ensure a safe
    and healthy workplace.
    • Risk Assessment is conducted via Hazard and Operability Study (HAZOP), Job Safety Analysis, Hazard Identification and
       Risk Assessment (HIRA), etc.
    • Safety Audits are conducted by government authorized external agencies.
    • Safety management visuals are placed at shop floor for creating awareness.
    • Change management system is put in place to evaluate the safety of any new installations, modifications, alterations, etc.
    • Real time monitoring of fire detection system using digital platforms.

13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:

                                                  FY 2022-23                                             FY 2021-22
                              Filed during   Pending resolution                       Filed during   Pending resolution
                                the year      at the end of year      Remarks           the year      at the end of year     Remarks



Working Conditions                21                 Nil                    Nil            2                 Nil                  Nil
Health and Safety                 14                 Nil                    Nil            4                 Nil                  Nil


14. Assessments for the year:

                                                                       Percentage of your plants and offices that were assessed
Particulars                                                               (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)



Health and safety practices                                                       100% of the plants were assessed
Working Conditions                                                                100% of the plants were assessed




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited       17
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant
    risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.

    Response: At Bajaj Auto, hazards and risks are identified through various auditing and inspection process. Corrective actions
    are implemented to mitigate significant Health and Safety hazards according to the hierarchy of controls. Some examples of
    the recent corrective actions implemented includes installation of earth discharge plate at entrance of petrol storage yard 4Wh
    to ensure zero static charge inside fenced premises during employee entry. We have also installed light curtain in goods lift in
    Spare Parts Division (SPD), along with vertical lifelines on chimneys. By means of our Risk and Opportunity register, we routinely
    monitor and follow up on the significant risks as per ISO 45001:2018. For more details, also refer Answer 12, Essential Indicators
    of Principle 3.

Leadership Indicators:

1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of
   (a) Employees (Y/N)
   (b) Workers (Y/N)

    Response:
    (a) Employees - Yes
    (b) Workers - Yes

2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value
   chain partners.

    Response: Bajaj Auto, through its practices, business agreements and dealings promotes payment of statutory dues and
    statutory compliances by the value chain partners.

3. Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high consequence work related injury/ill-health/fatalities (as
   reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose
   family members have been placed in suitable employment:

                                                                                          No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated and
                                               Total no. of affected                    placed in suitable employment or whose family members
                                               employees/workers                                have been placed in suitable employment
Safety Incident/Number                    FY 2022-23           FY 2021-22                     FY 2022-23                                  FY 2021-22



Employees
                                                Nil                 Nil                             Nil                                         Nil
Workers


4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career
   endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No)

    Response: Yes

5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:

Particulars                             Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed



Health and safety practices
                                                                                                    68.7%
Working Conditions
Note: Industry sources are not assessed by Bajaj Auto Limited. Industry sources are national and multinational companies, who supply components across the
automotive industries.


6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from assessments
   of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners:

    Response: At Bajaj Auto, any non-compliance or areas of improvement found during assessments of health and safety practices
    and working conditions of value chain partners are closed appropriately. We are focused on legal and safety compliances of
    our vendors. To ensure optimal working conditions, we have created an enhanced system for monitoring, documentation, and
    compliance in our vendor portal. Our system generates alerts to highlight vendors’ submission of accidents. We also encourage
    suppliers to conduct self-assessment of Health & Safety Systems and processes implemented at their respective locations.


 18      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
      PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to
                               all its stakeholders.


Essential Indicators:

1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.

   Response: Key stakeholders are individuals, organizations, parties, or entities that influence our business, add value, or are
   critical elements of the value chain. Vendors, customers, dealers, employees, community, and shareholders are some of our
   major stakeholders.

2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.

                                                                             Frequency of
                    Whether                                                  Engagement
                  identified as     Channels of communication (Email,         (Annually/
                 Vulnerable and       SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets,              Half yearly/     Purpose and scope of engagement
Stakeholder       Marginalized     Advertisement, Community Meetings,      Quarterly/others including key topics and concerns raised
group            Group (Yes/No)       Notice Board, Website), Others       – please specify)        during such engagement



Customers        No               Showrooms, Workshops, Website           Ongoing basis       1. Responsible manufacturing
                                  Dealer Management system, Outbound                          2. Addressing customer queries and
                                  call, Advertisements and Customer                              grievances
                                  Meets
                                                                                              3. Feedback on products and services
Vendors          No               Vendor Portal, Emails / Telephone,      Ongoing Basis       1. Supply chain
                                  Interactions, Bajaj Auto Vendor                             2. Quality
                                  Association (BAVA) EC/MC meeting,
                                                                                              3. Development
                                  Bajaj Auto Vendor Association Sub
                                  clusters/Sub-committees, Kaizen                             4. SHE compliance
                                  competition and cluster conventions                         5. TPM & improvements
Employees and    No               Intranet, Email, SMS, Virtual Calls,    Ongoing Basis       1. Relevant business communication,
Workers                           In-person meetings, internal events,                        2. Career, learning & growth,
                                  notice boards
                                                                                              3. HR policies and practices
Shareholders     No               Email, SMS, Newspaper, Advertisement, Ongoing basis         1. Financial results
and Investors                     Stock Exchange, Website, Survey,                            2. Business outlook
                                  Virtual and Physical Meetings,
                                                                                              3. Key risks
                                  Conferences, etc.
                                                                                              4. Transfer of equity shares
                                                                                              5. TDS on dividend
                                                                                              6. Non-receipt of dividend
Dealers and      No               Dealer Meets, Emails, Marketing         Ongoing basis       1. Sales and Marketing plan
Distributors                      communications, D&T App                                     2. New product strategy and inventory
                                                                                                 building
                                                                                              3. Enhancing customer experience
Regulatory       No               Conferences, external forums, and       Ongoing Basis       1. Compliance with national and local
Bodies                            public platforms                                               regulations
                                                                                              2. Permissions/ approvals on various
                                                                                                 regulatory requirements
Government       No               Policy-making discussions and           Ongoing Basis       1. Discussion and inputs on regulations
                                  briefings, meetings with government                         2. Business ethics
                                  agencies, representation through
                                  trade bodies




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                   Bajaj Auto Limited       19
                                                                             Frequency of
                    Whether                                                  Engagement
                  identified as    Channels of communication (Email,          (Annually/
                 Vulnerable and      SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets,               Half yearly/     Purpose and scope of engagement
Stakeholder       Marginalized    Advertisement, Community Meetings,       Quarterly/others including key topics and concerns raised
group            Group (Yes/No)      Notice Board, Website), Others        – please specify)        during such engagement



Talent market    No               Email, SMS, virtual calls,               Ongoing basis     1. Communication on employee value
- Campuses/                       In-person meetings, websites,                                 proposition
Institutes,                       social media, communication                                2. In engineering and management
candidates                        through recruitment partners                                  B-Schools, we launch case
                                                                                                competitions, live projects, and summer
                                                                                                internship programs to engage with the
                                                                                                students and provide support and
                                                                                                training to help them develop
                                                                                                professionally
Community        Yes              Physical visits, virtual meets           Weekly/           The purpose of visit is to check the
                                                                           Quarterly/ Half   following:
                                                                           yearly            1. Build rapport with community
                                                                                             2.Assess impact of the project
                                                                                             3.Rapport with the implementing agency
                                                                                             4.Behaviour change
                                                                                             5.Community institution assessment
Implementation   No               Email, Phone calls, SMS, in-person and   Weekly and        1. Technical assessment
Agency                            virtual meetings, Office visits          Monthly           2. Financial assessment
                                                                                             3. Concerns regarding the project
                                                                                             4. Checking if planned outcomes are
                                                                                                visible.
                                                                                             5. Rapport with the community


Leadership Indicators:

1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics
   or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.

   Response: At Bajaj Auto we carry out frequent interactions with our varied group of stakeholders. Individual functional team at
   BAL periodically interacts with our diverse stakeholders and the functional heads communicate their concerns and feedback on
   economic, environmental, and social topics to the Board members. Through the means of Business Review and Risk Management
   meetings, the Board gets updates on the responses as well as issues of our stakeholder groups. Based on these consultations
   we construct plans to mitigate and manage the risks. Our Company has also established a Stakeholder Relationship Committee,
   through which we enforce ongoing, proactive engagement and ensure that the Board is well-informed of new developments and
   stakeholder comments.




 20    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                16th Annual Report 2022-23
        PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights.

Essential Indicators:

1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity,
   in the following format:

                                         FY 2022-23                                                     FY 2021-22
                                     No. of Employees/                                               No. of Employees/
Category            Total (A)       Workers covered (B)           % (B/A)       Total (C)           Workers covered (D)          % (D/C)



                                                                Employees
Permanent             2,708                2,708                   100 %         2,747                     2,747                 100 %
Other than            355                   355                    100 %          364                      364                   100 %
Permanent
Total                 3,063                3,063                  100 %          3,111                    3,111                  100 %
                                                                 Workers
Permanent             4,130                4,130                   100 %         4,571                     4,571                 100 %
Other than            1,183                1,183                   100 %          897                      897                   100 %
Permanent
Total                 5,313                5,313                  100 %          5,468                    5,468                  100 %


2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:

                                         FY 2022-23                                                     FY 2021-22
                                Equal to Minimum      More than Minimum                     Equal to Minimum           More than Minimum
                                      Wage                   Wage                                 Wage                        Wage
                                Number                Number                                Number                      Number
Category          Total (A)       (B)     % (B/A)       (C)         % (C/A)   Total (D)       (E)         % (E/D)         (F)      % (F/D)



                                                                Employees
                                                                Permanent
Male               2,596          Nil        Nil       2,596         100%      2,644          Nil           Nil          2,644         100%
Female              112           Nil        Nil          112        100%       103           Nil           Nil           103          100%
                                                      Other than Permanent
Male                288           Nil        Nil       1,297         100%       307           Nil           Nil           307          100%
Female               67           Nil        Nil          241        100%        57           Nil           Nil           57           100%
                                                                Workers
                                                                Permanent
Male               3,944          Nil        Nil       3,944         100%      4,382          Nil           Nil          4,382         100%
Female              186           Nil        Nil          186        100%       189           Nil           Nil           189          100%
                                                      Other than Permanent
Male               1,009          Nil       Nil        1,009         100%       753           Nil           Nil           753          100%
Female              174           Nil       Nil           174        100%       144          Nil            Nil           144          100%




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited     21
3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
                                                                                                                                                               (H in Lakh)

                                                                Male                                                              Female
                                                  Median remuneration/                                                Median remuneration/
                                                     salary/wages of             Average work                            salary/wages of             Average work
Category                            Number         respective category            experience             Number        respective category            experience



Board of Directors (BoD)               11                     35                         –                 1                      20                           –
Key Managerial Personnel                3                     527                        –                 Nil                    Nil                          –
Employees other than BoD             2,882                    22                        15                179                     14                           5
and KMP1
Workers                              4,953                     8                        17                360                      4                           2
1
 Note: The average experience of male employees is 15 years, however it is 5 years for female employees. The average experience of male workers is 17 years,
however it is 2 years for female workers.


4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or
   contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)

     Response: Yes

5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.

     Response: Bajaj Auto considers respect for human rights as a fundamental value for our business. Resolution of complaints and
     grievances takes place while keeping in mind the principles of natural justice, confidentiality, sensitivity, and no retaliation for
     employee. In case of any violations, a complaint can be made to the Enforcement Committee as mentioned in the policy.

     Any grievance against any member of the Enforcement Committee should be addressed to the Managing Director. The Committee
     is responsible for protecting both the complainant’s privacy and the confidentiality of complaints.

     Our Human Rights Policy can be found at:
     https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-policy/Human-Rights-Policy.ashx.

6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:

                                                            FY 2022-23                                                     FY 2021-22
                                              Filed         Pending                              Filed            Pending
                                             during       resolution at                         during          resolution at
Category                                    the year     the end of year       Remarks         the year        the end of year                Remarks



Sexual Harassment                                                                                  Nil               Nil
                                                                                                                                 The case was addressed and
Discrimination at workplace                                                                         1                0
                                                                                                                                 resolved by taking appropriate
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour                                   Nil                                                           actions basis the internal
                                                                                                                                 mechanisms. The complainant
Wages                                                                                                          Nil
                                                                                                                                 is working with Bajaj Auto.
Other human rights related issues


7. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.

     Response: Ethics & values have always been core to the way Bajaj Auto operates & any violation is dealt with appropriately.
     With this intent, the Company has policies in place to protect the identity of the complainant. Additionally, it protects them
     from discrimination, victimization, retaliation, or adoption of any unfair employment practices. We uphold the privacy of the
     complainant and maintain the confidentiality of complaints. The complainant may be moved to any other location while an
     investigation is underway. Appropriate escalation mechanisms exist for complainants.




    22   Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
   Please refer to the following policies for more details:

   1. Equal Opportunity Policy: (https://www.bajajauto.com/corporate/key-policies)

		      The policy inter alia mentions the following clauses related to equal opportunities:

		      •     Any harassment or exhibition of discriminatory behaviour during the course of candidature or employment would be
              investigated by the grievance redressal committee and appropriate actions will be taken.

		      •     The Company does not tolerate any malpractice, impropriety, abuse or wrongdoing or discrimination or harassment.
              Any violation discovered should be reported directly to the members of the grievance redressal committee or via websites
              bajajauto@integritymatters.in

		      •     The Company should maintain the confidentiality of the grievances and would ensure the prevention of retaliation against
              the applicant or employee who files a charge of discrimination or harassment, testifies, or participates in any proceeding.

   2. Whistle Blower Policy: (https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-policy/Whistle-Blower-Policy.ashx)

		      Our Whistle Blower Policy protects the whistle blower from any kind of discrimination, harassment, victimisation or any other
        unfair employment practice by ensuring the confidentiality of the complainant’s identity.

  3. Human Rights Policy: (https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-policy/Human-Rights-Policy.ashx)
		 Our Human rights policy prohibits any kind of discrimination at workplace.

  4. Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH):
		 The Company policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (POSH) provides guidelines and structured
     mechanism of ensuring that the complainant is not discriminated against.

   Over and above the mechanisms mentioned in the respective policies, Bajaj Auto has partnered with “Integrity Matters”,
   an independent Third-Party organisation.

   Link: https://bajajauto.integritymatters.in/cases/case_instructions?locale=en

8. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)

   Response: Yes, it is part of our Supplier Code of Conduct.

9. Assessments for the year:

                                                                 Percentage of your plants and offices that were assessed
Particulars                                                         (By entity or statutory authorities or third parties)



Child Labour
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment                                          We assess hundred percent of our operations during the audit to ensure
Discrimination at workplace                                                compliance with all statutory laws.

Wages
Others – please specify


In 2022-23, we conducted our annual engagement survey, which was managed by a third-party vendor. Responses from employees
and workers were sought by the Company on specific questions related to diversity and inclusion and actions were taken accordingly.

10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the
    assessments at Question 9 above.

   Response: There were no significant risk or concerns noticed from Human Rights assessment. The Company continues to
   regularly update its policies and procedures to address new risks and concerns identified related to human rights and take
   corrective action proactively.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                    Bajaj Auto Limited      23
Leadership Indicators:

1. Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.

    Response: At Bajaj Auto, no complaints/grievances have been received regarding human rights.

2. Details on assessment of value chain partners:

                                                                                         Percentage of value chain partners
Particulars                                                              (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed



Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
                                                                                                               68.7%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others-please specify
Note: Industry sources are not assessed by Bajaj Auto Limited. Industry sources are national and multinational companies, who supply components across the
automotive industries.


3. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the
   assessments at Question 2 above.

    Response: Not applicable, as no adverse feedback was received in the assessment of value chain partners in the FY 2022-23.




 24      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                       16th Annual Report 2022-23
       PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and
                                        restore the environment.

Essential Indicators

1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:

Parameter (in MJ)                                                                                                                    FY 2022-23          FY 2021-22



Total electricity consumption (A)                                                                                                    340,823,713         336,486,933
Total fuel consumption (B)                                                                                                           164,159,297          155,814,566
Energy consumption through other sources (C)                                                                                                     Nil                Nil
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)                                                                                                     504,983,010          492,301,499
Energy intensity per crore rupee of Turnover (Total energy consumption/turnover in rupees crore)                                            13,427              14,330
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity                                                                   –                     –
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No


2. Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as Designated Consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and
   Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been
   achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.

    Response: Not Applicable.

3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:

Parameter                                                                                                                       FY 2022-23               FY 2021-22



                                                          Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water                                                                                                                      92,867                   78,495
(ii) Groundwater                                                                                                                       57,323                   60,945
(iii) Third party water                                                                                                              719,990                   687,595
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water                                                                                                            Nil                      Nil
(v) Others                                                                                                                           240,726                   222,128
Total volume of water withdrawal (i + ii + iii + iv + v)                                                                            1,110,906                 1,049,163
Total volume of water consumption                                                                                                   1,110,906                 1,049,163
Water intensity per crore rupee of Turnover (Water consumed/turnover in rupees crore)                                                     29.5                    30.5
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity                                                               –                          –
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No


4. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.

    Response: Yes, all plants are having a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge. All Industrial effluent is treated through Effluent
    Treatment Plant (ETP) followed by Reverse Osmosis (RO). Permeate water is used for industrial activities while reject water
    is treated in Multiple Effective Evaporator. Domestic Sewage effluent is treated in Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) and treated
    effluent is used for watering garden and horticulture areas.

    Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) Process

    For achieving Zero Liquid Discharge of the process wastewater, BAL has following treatment processes –

    Wastewater from process is treated in ETP (Effluent Treatment Plant). ETP comprises of Primary Chemical treatment, followed by
    Secondary biological treatment, the treated wastewater is then sent to Ultra Filtration (UF), Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant and Multi
    Effect Evaporator (MEE).


16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited           25
     Ultra-Filtration (UF): The treated effluent from the outlet of ETP is passed through UF, a modern process technology to purify
     water for a wide range of applications including food processing, pharmaceuticals, power generation, sea water desalting and
     municipal drinking water.

     Reverse Osmosis (RO): The permeated of the UF is passed through RO. The water moves to the salty side of the membrane until
     equilibrium is achieved. The permeate water is used back in the process and reject water is either retreated by diluting with
     process wastewater or treated in Multiple Effective Evaporator.

     Multi Effect Evaporator (MEE): Rejected water from RO is fed into the evaporator and it is heated by a heat source like steam.
     Because of the applied heat, the water in the solution is converted into vapour and is condensed while the concentrated solution
     is fed into a next evaporator for further concentration. In a multiple effect evaporator, the vapour from one evaporator is fed into
     the steam chest of the other evaporator. Condensate water from each stage is used back in process.

     Domestic Sewage effluent is treated in STP which comprises of Primary treatment followed by biological treatment and treated
     effluent is used for watering garden and horticulture areas/toilet flushing.

5. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:


                                                                                                     Please
Parameter                                                                                          Specify Unit                 FY 2022-23                FY 2021-22



NOx                                                                                                     MT                                  2.9                   4.1
SOx                                                                                                     MT                                16.2                   19.8
Particulate Matter (PM)                                                                                 MT                                  3.1                   3.9
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)                                                                      Nil                                Nil                   Nil
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)                                                                         Nil                                Nil                   Nil
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)                                                                           Nil                                Nil                   Nil
Others – please specify                                                                                  Nil                                Nil                   Nil
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.: No


6    Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:

Parameter                                                                                               Unit                    FY 2022-23                FY 2021-22



Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, FCs,                     Metric tonnes of                         8,667                  7,853
SF6, NF3, if available)                                                                         CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs,                          Metric tonnes of                       72,002                  68,515
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)                                                                   CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per crore rupee of turnover                                 Metric tonnes of                            2.1                   2.2
                                                                                                CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant metric                            Nil                                Nil                   Nil
may be selected by the entity
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.: No


7. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.

     Response: Yes, at Bajaj Auto various initiatives have been undertaken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Pumps and motors
     that conserve energy have been fitted. Air supply duct of base coat and Topcoat booth has been separated to reduce running of
     base coat booth in Paint Shop. An electrical reciprocator has been installed replacing a pneumatic reciprocator. Additionally,
     IR heaters have been installed in the flash-off zones for the primer and base coat to reduce the amount of PNG used by the
     Air Supply Unit (ASU) burners. For air conditioning systems, Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) are used as they have a lower impact
     on the ozone layer. Along with the installation of the daylight brillantor system, energy-efficient lighting is being used. Automatic
     Power Factor Control (APFC) panels have been installed to achieve “unity power factor” for KVAH billing. Additionally, solar
     energy generation units are placed, and paint sludge and other incinerable waste are now disposed of through recycling rather
     than incineration.




    26    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                                        16th Annual Report 2022-23
8. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:

Parameter                                                                                                                            FY 2022-23           FY 2021-22



                                                              Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)                                                                                                                               310              184
E-waste (B)                                                                                                                                      54               33
Bio-medical waste (C)                                                                                                                            0.1              0.2
Construction and demolition waste (D)                                                                                                       15,800             13,493
Battery waste (E)                                                                                                                                45               41
Radioactive waste (F)                                                                                                                            Nil              Nil
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any.
i.      Industrial ETP Sludge                                                                                                                   184              190
ii.     Discarded Asbestos sheet waste                                                                                                          199               78
iii.    Empty barrels/containers/liners contaminated with hazardous chemicals/wastes                                                           484               742
iv.    Process wastes, residues, and sludges                                                                                                   486               489
v.     Waste and Residues- Paint Sludge disposed to MEPL                                                                                        249              122
vi.    Others                                                                                                                                  348               476
Total Hazardous Waste (G):                                                                                                                    1,951             2,097
Other Non-hazardous waste generated. Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition i.e.,
by materials relevant to the sector)
i.     Factory Rubbish                                                                                                                       3,067              3,191
ii.    MS Turning/Boring Scrap                                                                                                                  714              686
iii.   Non-Ferrous scrap                                                                                                                        217              228
iv.    STP sludge/Biomass                                                                                                                       176              174
v.     Canteen Waste and Garbage                                                                                                                315              198
vi.    Others                                                                                                                                    38               61
Total Non-Hazardous Waste (H):                                                                                                               4,527              4,538
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)                                                                                                       22,687             20,385


                             For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using
                                                  or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
(i)    Recycled                                                                                                                              5,099              5,363
(ii)   Re-used                                                                                                                                  417              195
(iii) Other recovery operations                                                                                                                  Nil              Nil
Total                                                                                                                                         5,516             5,558


                                       For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of
                                                         disposal method (in metric tonnes)
(i)    Incineration                                                                                                                            483               765
(ii)   Landfilling                                                                                                                          16,455             14,048
(iii) Other disposal operations                                                                                                                233                15
Total                                                                                                                                        17,171            14,828
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.: No




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                            Bajaj Auto Limited         27
9. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your
   Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to
   manage such wastes.

   Response: Waste reduction is taken on by implementing 6R principle across our plants. (6R - Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover,
   Redesign, Regulate). Waste is segregated at shop floor into Hazardous and Non-Hazardous category, and then transferred to
   demarcated collection centres outside shop. While Non-hazardous waste is directly collected and transferred to authorised
   agencies for recycling, hazardous waste is disposed to Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) authorised agencies with
   manifest system.

10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries,
    biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals/
    clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:

   Response: The Company does not have any operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas.

11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current
    financial year:

   Response: No environmental impact assessment of projects was undertaken by the Company during the current financial year.

12. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention
    and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder
    (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:

                                                                                Any fines/penalties/action
           Specify the law/regulation/guidelines    Provide details of     taken by regulatory agencies such as     Corrective action
Sr. No.        which was not complied with         the non-compliance      pollution control boards or by courts      taken if any



                                         100% compliant with all applicable laws and regulations.




 28       Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                               16th Annual Report 2022-23
Leadership Indicators

1. Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the
   following format:

Parameter                                                                                                                       FY 2022-23                FY 2021-22


                                                                From renewable sources (in MJ)
Total electricity consumption (A)                                                                                                 47,550,490                  64,032,040
Total fuel consumption (B)                                                                                                                  Nil                      Nil
Energy consumption through other sources (C)                                                                                                Nil                      Nil
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)                                                                              47,550,490                  64,032,040


                                                             From non-renewable sources (in MJ)
Total electricity consumption (D)                                                                                               293,273,222               272,454,892
Total fuel consumption (E)                                                                                                       164,159,297              155,814,566
Energy consumption through other sources (F)                                                                                                Nil                      Nil
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)                                                                        457,432,520               428,269,459
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency: No


2. Provide the following details related to water discharged:

Parameter                                                                                                                       FY 2022-23                FY 2021-22



                                          Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)     To Surface water
        No treatment
        With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii)    To Groundwater
        No treatment
        With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iii) To Seawater
        No treatment
        With treatment – please specify level of treatment                                                                        Nil                         Nil

(iv) Sent to third parties
        No treatment
        With treatment – please specify level of treatment: Primary, Secondary and Tertiary
        Treatment
(v)     Others
        No treatment
        With treatment – please specify level of treatment
        Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.: No


3. Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
   For each facility/plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
   (i) Name of the area
   (ii) Nature of operations
   (iii) Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format:

       Response: Not Applicable. As per Central Groundwater Resource Assessment 2021 and 2022, no facility/plant is located in water
       stress area.



16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                                              Bajaj Auto Limited          29
4. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details
   of significant direct and indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and
   remediation activities.

   Response: Not applicable

5. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency,
   or reduce impact due to emissions/effluent discharge/waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as
   outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:

Location        Initiative undertaken                      Details of the initiative                Outcome of the initiative



             Rainwater harvesting          Constructed a pond with capacity of 6,500 kl for         Water Conservation and Net water
                                           rainwater harvesting and ground water recharge.          positive.
                                           Installed solar roof top power plant for renewable       Reduction of 1,636 ton-CO2 (GHG)
                                           energy generation of 3.22 MWp generating                 emission in 2022-23
             Use of renewable energy       19.47 lakh kWh units in 2022-23.
Akurdi
             source
                                           Sourced Windmill electricity to the tune of 2.63 lakh kWh Leading to a reduction of 221 ton-CO2
                                           in 2022-23.                                               emission in 2022-23
             Use of eco-friendly           Replaced R22 refrigerant gas generating AC system in     Reduced 232 kg of R22 Gas in 2021-22
             refrigerant gas               the premises                                             and reduced 50 kg of R22 Gas in 2022-23
             Rainwater harvesting          Created rainwater harvesting and groundwater             Water Conservation and Net water
                                           recharge structures. Three ponds with capacity of        positive.
                                           65,000/12,500/6,000 kl (total = 83,500 kl) have been
                                           built for rainwater harvesting.
Chakan       Use of renewable energy       Installed solar roof top for renewable energy generation Reduction of 1,253 ton-CO2 (GHG)
             source                        of 1.97 MWp generating 2.3 million kWh units in          emission in 2022-23
                                           2022-23. Next phase plan 818 kW.
             Use of eco-friendly           Gradually replaced AC systems with R22 refrigerant gas All R22 gas replaced.
             refrigerant gas               which were non-eco-friendly/harmful to environment.
             Rainwater harvesting          Constructed pond for rainwater harvesting                Water Conservation and Net water
                                           and groundwater recharge, with capacity of               positive.
                                           90,000 kl.
Waluj        Waste to landfill reduction   38% of Paint Sludge Waste was sent for recycling         Sustainability in Waste Disposal
                                           instead of incineration.
             Use of renewable energy       Installed 5 MWp solar roof top power plant which         Reduced 4,538 tons of greenhouse gas
             source                        reduces greenhouse gas emissions.                        emissions.
             Water Consumption             Used treated wastewater in washrooms, Pre-treatment Water saving 96,936 kl/year and
             reduction                     line demineralised water overflow water used for paint being Net water positive.
                                           shop process in RO, RO reject water used in Water
                                           Recirculation System (WRS). Use of stored rainwater for
                                           paint shop process
             Fuel Consumption              Used Magnetic Resonator for efficient fuel consumption, Fuel consumption saving 36,300
             Reduction                     changed fuel type from Propane to PNG. Use of              (Standard Cubic Metre/Year)
                                           removable hooks in petrol tank hanger, thermos
                                           ceramic coating used in paint baking oven. Use of Heat
                                           Recovery system for Jig stripping plant, use of highly
Pantnagar
                                           efficient heat transfer liquid in hot water generator i.e.
                                           Hydromel. Use of Tecta Lis processes in pre-treatment
             Power consumption             Separation of base coat duct from Air Supply Unit (ASU) Energy savings 511,625 kW/year
             Reduction                     system, automatic system provided for booth
                                           temperature maintaining 25⁰C. Installed automatic ON/
                                           OFF system for vehicle assembly Air Handling Unit
                                           (AHU) and Engine Assembly ACs, installed IE5 motor in
                                           place of IE3 motor. Power factor improvement by
                                           installing static voltage generator unit, colour ASU DC
                                           brushless motor provision in place of AC blower system.




 30      Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
6. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/web link.

   Response: The framework of the Risk Management Policy includes identification of internal and external risks faced by the
   Company, including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability, information, cyber security, strategic or any other risk as
   may be determined by the Risk Management Committee. The Company has framed this Risk Management Policy to identify and
   minimize the adverse consequence of risks on business objectives. The given framework also includes the measures for risk
   mitigation, reporting of critical risks within the Company and Business Continuity Plan.

   The Core management team of the Company will deliberate and decide from time to time on a business continuity plan, outlining
   how the business will operate during an emergency. It will also conduct appropriate business impact analysis to identify time-
   sensitive or critical business functions and processes and the resources that support them.

   The Company also has a comprehensive Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan (EPRP) to establish and maintain
   procedures to identify potential for and respond to accidents, health emergencies and for preventing and mitigating the
   environmental impacts that are associated with them. The Company reviews and revises the emergency preparedness and
   response procedures on a regular interval.

   For more details, please visit: https://www.bajajauto.com/-/media/bajajauto/Investors/code-policy/Terms-of-Reference-Risk-
   Management-Committees.ashx

7. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or
   adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.

   Response: There has been no significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. Proactive
   measures for critical parameters that have a negative environmental impact, including education, audit mechanisms using
   a common check list, NC closure, and compliance monitoring have been identified. Utilization of plastic is being reduced
   across clusters.

8. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts.

   Response: 68.7%


Note: Industry sources are not assessed by Bajaj Auto Limited. Industry sources are national and multinational companies, who
supply components across the automotive industries.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited     31
         PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy,
                                   should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent.

Essential Indicators:

1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.

		Response: 8

      b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the
         entity is a member of/affiliated to.

Sr.                                                                                   Reach of trade and industry chambers/
No.        Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations                           associations (State/National)



1          Confederation of Indian Industry                                                          National
2          Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers                                                National
3          Federation of Indian Export Organizations                                                 National
4          Indian Merchant Chamber                                                                   National
5          The Automotive Research Association of India                                              National
6          Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture                                   State
7          The Advertising Standards Council of India                                                National
8          Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry                                                   National



2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based
   on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.

Response: There are no issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity.




    32    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                         16th Annual Report 2022-23
      PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and
                                   equitable development.

Essential Indicators:

1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current
   financial year.

    Response: Bajaj Auto Ltd. has always focused on improving the quality and impact of their CSR programs. Not specific to SIA,
    but the team has carried out various impact assessments in FY 22-23 with the objective of analysing, monitoring, and managing
    the intended and unintended social consequences, technical aspects of the proposed model, cost-effectiveness, sustainability,
    community contribution and community engagement.

2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your
   entity, in the following format:

    Response: Not applicable as no projects on R&R conducted by Bajaj Auto.

3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.

    Response: The Company carries its CSR activities through various implementing agencies. The communities (stakeholders) share
    all their issues with the implementing agencies (partner NGOs) who provide solutions to their problems and rectify the situation.

4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:

Particulars                                                                                             FY 2022-23           FY 2021-22



Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers                                                                8.6%                 8.1%
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts                                    Within - 69%        Within - 69%
                                                                                                        Outside - 28%      Outside - 29%
                                                                                                       Neighbour - 3%      Neighbour - 2%


Leadership Indicators:

1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
   (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):

    Response:

Details of negative social impacts identified                                                             Corrective action taken



No negative social impact has been identified in impact assessments..                                                NA


2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified
   by government bodies:

                                                                                                                               Total Amount
                                                                                                                                        Spent
Sr. No.   Project Location/s (State)                             Project Location/s (District)                                    (J in Lakh)



1         Rajasthan, Uttarakhand                                 Multiple locations including Udham Singh Nagar                           297
2         Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan                    Multiple locations including Udham Singh Nagar                           263
3         Maharashtra                                            Gadchiroli                                                               53
4         Maharashtra                                            Osmanabad, Latur                                                         29
5         Rajasthan                                              Multiple locations including Sirohi                                      24


16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                        Bajaj Auto Limited    33
3. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:

                                                                                                               Number of Percentage of
                                                                                                             beneficiaries marginalized
Sr. No.   Project Title                                                                                          reached communities



1         Providing healthcare to tribal and Rural communities of Gadchiroli: Support for recurring                41,646         100%
          expenditure of 80 bed Search hospital
2         The Satyamev Jayate Water Cup (Phase II)                                                                 39,000         100%
3         Bajaj water conservation project                                                                         38,955         100%
4         Installation of ICU at Shri. Jamnalal Bajaj wing of Mahatma Gandhi Tribal Hospital and community         35,347         100%
          interventions for prevention, vaccination, and treatment of COVID-19
5         Augmenting conservation of water for improving resilience of agriculture in rainfed areas                34,399         100%
6         To improve access to health services during COVID-19 through Mobile Medical units (MMU) in               31,753         100%
          underserved villages.
7         Expanding quality and low-cost health services for tribal and underserved communities in South           30,718         100%
          Rajasthan
8         Bringing Quality Healthcare to Rural Kumaon                                                              27,577         100%
9         Bajaj Health Initiative-Rudraprayag                                                                      18,129         100%




    34    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                 16th Annual Report 2022-23
        PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with & provide value to their consumers in a
                                  responsible manner.

Essential Indicators:

1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.

    Response:
    Bajaj Auto has a mechanism in place to record customer feedbacks through various ways. We have activated multiple avenues
    to raise complaint and feedback for customer convenience like a dedicated call centre, customer satisfaction survey, customer
    care app, and our customer complaint portal. Any other complaints could be addressed on NPS feedback links, through dedicated
    customer care email service, and social media where all customer queries/complaints are recorded in system and being tracked
    for resolution. Our system ensures complaint resolution with full satisfaction to customer with their consent. Customers can send
    the complaints and feedback on dedicated emails (customerservice@bajajauto.co.in and customersupport@chetak.com).

2. Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:

Particulars                                                                                         As a percentage to total turnover


Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product                                                      100 %
Safe and responsible usage                                                                                       100 %
Recycling and/or safe disposal                                                                                       Nil


3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:

                                                    FY 2022-23                                             FY 2021-22
                                 Received       Pending                                Received        Pending
                                 during the   resolution at                            during the    resolution at
Particulars                        year        end of year          Remarks              year         end of year           Remarks


Data privacy
Advertising
Cyber-security                      Nil            Nil                 Nil                Nil             Nil                  Nil
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices
Unfair Trade Practices               4              2                  Nil                 2              Nil                  Nil
Other                                                         All pending complaints                                  All pending complaints
                                   83,751         7,484                                 78,395           402
                                                              will be closed in FY24                                    are closed in FY23


4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:

Particular                                                        Number                                    Reasons for recall



Voluntary recalls
                                                                                           Nil
Forced recalls




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                      Bajaj Auto Limited      35
5. Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a
   web-link of the policy.

   Response: Yes, the entity has a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy. Privacy of our customers,
   users and visitors is of primary importance to us and we take utmost care in handling any confidential information collected by
   our platform. Bajaj Auto Limited does not collect any personal or sensitive information without the knowledge and consent of the
   data user. The user reserves the right to grant specific and limited access to any additional services/facilities/features, which are
   completely optional. In accordance with our privacy policy, we must obtain the user's consent before accessing any sensitive or
   personal data in order to provide these extra services.

   Company Privacy Policy can be accessed at: www.bajajauto.com/privacy-policy

6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential
   services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action taken
   by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.

   Response: No regulatory action taken by any regulatory authority related to above mentioned parameters.




 36    Bajaj Auto Limited                                                                                 16th Annual Report 2022-23
Leadership Indicators:

1. Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link,
   if available).

   Response: Information on all product and services can be easily accessible to all customer on Bajaj Auto's website
   (URL: https:/www.bajajauto.com/three-wheelers), (https://www.bajajauto.com/bikes) and (https://www.chetak.com/). Customers
   are informed on our products and services through various social media initiatives, showroom visits and other ground level
   activations launched by the Company. In addition to this, Company also hands over Owner’s Manual to all its customers at the
   time of delivery through dealers which contains all the information related to product and services. Furthermore, information
   related to the products and services can also be found over 'KTM India App' available digitally over Android and iOS platform.

2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.

   Response: All our customers receive an Owner's Manual at the time of delivery, which contains all the details about the goods
   and services. "Safety first" section of the New Vehicle Delivery (NVD) document provided with the vehicle covers essential safety
   instructions. Customers are instructed on safe and responsible vehicle usage as part of Bajaj Auto-IBU's process of product
   installation. Our dealers carry out the process of product installation and free servicing, during which retail customers are
   educated on safe and responsible usage of vehicle. Our KTM India App includes 'Owner’s Manual' which is made available to
   the customers digitally for their convenience. “Maintenance tips” section in the app covers information on additional product
   maintenance and FAQ's. Additionally, Bajaj Auto organizes various safety initiatives during its annual drive, where customers are
   instructed on how to operate a vehicle responsibly and safely. We also carry out DIY sessions time to time where consumers are
   educated on vehicle safety and maintenance.

3. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not
   Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating
   to the major products/services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)

   Response: Details regarding the product are displayed and shared at the dealer points. All product related information is being
   provided to customer through owner’s manual. Few important education points and operation points are informed to customer
   via various stickers pasted on vehicle. During vehicle delivery, customers are briefed on the product features, service schedule
   and contact details. We also educate customer further through product installation process at the time of first free service. We
   have also adapted TPM methodology at our dealership to ensure quality services at our dealer network. Consumer satisfaction is
   measured through our NPS process. Our marketing team conducts survey (Focused Group Discussions) to understand customer
   feedback. DIY meetings and one on one feedback collection for newly launched product is done by our service team.

4. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:

   a. Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
   b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers

   Response: We did not witness any instances pertaining to data breaches. To ensure the integrity of data and prevent privacy
   violations, the Company maintains a strong cyber security architecture. We are also conscious of the human component of data
   privacy and cybersecurity. In order to prevent any breaches on consumer end, the Company sends communications to inform and
   advise them on safe practice. We have also conducted a cyber security assessment and implementing a 3-year plan to improve
   on our cyber security practices.




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                                Bajaj Auto Limited     37
           LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

AHU                      Air Handling Unit

AIS                      Automotive Industry Standards

APFC                     Automatic Power Factor Control

ASU                      Air Supply Unit

BAL                      Bajaj Auto Ltd.

BAVA                     Bajaj Auto Vendor Association

BBS                      Behaviour Based Safety

BRSR                     Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report

CIN                      Corporate Identification Number

CoC                      Code Of Conduct

CSR                      Corporate Social Responsibility

DIY                      Do It Yourself

DWM                      Daily Work Management

EPR                      Extended Producer Responsibility

ESG                      Environmental Social Governance

ETP                      Effluent Treatment Plant

EV                       Electric Vehicles

FY                       Fiscal Year

HAP                      Hazardous Air Pollutants

HAZOP                    Hazard and Operability study

HFC                      Hydrofluorocarbon

HIRA                     Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment

HR                       Human Resource

IMDS                     International Material Data System

IPO                      Input–Process–Output

JH                       Jishu Hozen

JSA                      Job Safety Analysis




 38     Bajaj Auto Limited                                                   16th Annual Report 2022-23
KMP                     Key Management Personnel

LAHI                    Lend A Hand India

LCA                     Life Cycle Analysis

LTIFR                   Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate

MPCB                    Maharashtra Pollution Control Board

MT                      Metric Tonnes

NA                      Not Applicable

NC                      Non-Compliance

NGRBC                   National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct

NOx                     Nitrogen Oxide

NPS                     Net Promoter Score

NVD                     New Vehicle Delivery

POP                     Persistent Organic Pollutants

POSH                    Prevention Of Sexual Harassment

R&D                     Research and Development

REACH                   Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals

RO                      Reverse Osmosis

SHE                     Safety, Health, and Environment

SOx                     Sulphur Oxide

SPD                     Spare Parts Division

STP                     Sewage Treatment Plant

SVHC                    Substance of Very High Concern

TPM                     Total Productive Maintenance

VOC                     Volatile Organic Compounds

WRS                     Water Recirculation System

ZLD                     Zero Liquid Discharge




16th Annual Report 2022-23                                                                     Bajaj Auto Limited   39
NOTES
Bajaj Auto Limited, Akurdi, Pune - 411 035, India | www.bajajauto.com
